A world without glass is almost unimaginable. Glass plays an essential role in various scientific fields and in industry. It is used throughout the home, at work, and often in play. One of the greatest benefits of glass is that it lets in light and provides protection from the weather at the same time. Glass allows daylight in but keeps out cold or stormy weather. Electric bulbs transmit light but keep out the oxygen that would cause their hot filaments to burn up. Television picture tubes enable viewers to see the image that is formed inside the tube. Bottles can reveal their contents without being opened.
 
The first true piece of sports equipment that man invented was the ball. In ancient Egypt, pitching stones was children's favorite game, but a badly thrown rock could hurt a child. Egyptians were therefore looking for something less dangerous to throw. And they developed what were probably the first balls. They were first made of grass or leaves held together by strings, and later of pieces of animal skin sewn together and stuffed with feathers or hay. Even though the Egyptians were warlike, they found time for peaceful games. Before long they devised a number of ball games. Perhaps they played ball more for instruction than for fun. Ballplaying was thought of mainly as a way to teach young men the speed and skill they would need for war.
 
It is my great pleasure to inform you that your sons and daughters have completed all the academic requirements over the last three years of study at Hutt High School. We feel as if the day they entered our school were yesterday, and now they will proudly receive their graduation certificates. Not unlike many successful graduates in our long history, your children will go out into the world, and successfully participate in the fields of politics, economics, culture, and education. The graduation ceremony will be held next Friday in Hutt High School's Assembly Hall. On behalf of the school, I would like to extend our invitation to you and your family. I look forward to meeting you there.
 
The first thing I notice upon entering this garden is that the ankle-high grass is greener than that on the other side of the fence. Dozens of wildflowers of countless varieties cover the ground to both sides of the path. Creeping plants cover the polished silver gate and the sound of bubbling water comes from somewhere. The perfume of wildflowers fills the air as the grass dances upon a gentle breeze. A large basket of herbs rests against the fence to the west. Every time I walk in this garden, I think, "Now I know what it is like to live in paradise."
 
Over the years various systems of grading coins have been developed by antique coin specialists. In America a numerical system based on a scale of 1 to 70 has been introduced, in which 1 is the lowest grade possible and 70 is perfect. The European grades, verbal descriptions, correspond roughly to every ten of the American grades. Thus, the European grade 'good' corresponds to 20 of the American system, 'fine' to 30, 'very fine' to 40, 'extremely fine' to 50, and 'almost perfect' to 60.   Until recently, numerical grading has been applied only to American coins, but the intention is that eventually these numbers will be used for all types of coins from all over the world. 
 
A clean sheet of paper is lying in front of you, and you have to fill it up. Suddenly, your mind may seem as blank as the paper. What can you do to set your pen in motion? The answer is simple: Don't be caught in the perfection trap. That is, if you can convince yourself that the first draft isn't your best writing and can be made more effective with additional thought and some revision, then it will be easier to get started. When starting, don't worry about what the reader will think about what you have written. Make writing as easy for you as you can by not being concerned with how good the first draft is. There will be time for revising and polishing any ideas you want to pursue later.
 
What is the most prevalent and perhaps most important prefix of our times? The answer should be multi, which means 'more than one.' Our modern jobs are increasingly requiring multi-tasking. Our communities are getting multi-cultural. Our entertainment is multi-media. While detailed knowledge of a single area once guaranteed success, today the top rewards go to those who can operate with equal confidence in different realms. Let us call these people boundary crossers. They develop expertise in multiple areas, they speak different languages, and they find joy in the rich variety of human experience. They live multi-lives because that is more interesting and, nowadays, more effective. 
 
Night diving is obviously less simple than diving during the day, but when properly organized, it is relatively straightforward. A powerful flashlight will easily light your way and the creatures around you, revealing marine life in its true colors. However, if you cover up your flashlight, you will be surprised at how much light there is underwater. Many creatures use phosphorescence at night, and as you move through the water, you will cause plankton to release tiny pulses of light, leaving beautiful glowing wakes trailing behind you. 
 
There are few people who do not react to music to some degree. The power of music is diverse and people respond in different ways. To some it is mainly an instinctive, exciting sound to which they dance or move their bodies. Other people listen for its message, or take an intellectual approach to its form and construction, appreciating its formal patterns or originality. Above all, however, there can be hardly anyone who is not moved by some kind of music. Music covers make us feel happy or sad, helpless or energetic, and some music is capable of overtaking the mind until it forgets all else. It works on the subconscious, creating or enhancing mood and unlocking deep memories.
 
A boy entered a coffee shop where I worked as a waitress. He sat at a table and asked me how much an ice cream sundae was. "Fifty cents," I replied. The little boy pulled his hand out of his pocket and studied a number of coins in it. "How much is a dish of plain ice cream?" he inquired. Some people were now waiting for a table, and I was impatient. "Thirty-five cents," I said angrily. The little boy again counted the coins and he ordered the plain ice cream. I brought the ice cream and walked away. The boy finished, paid the cashier, and departed. When I came back, I swallowed hard at what I saw. There, placed neatly beside the empty  dish, were fifteen pennies my tip. 
 
One key social competence is how well or poorly people express their own feelings. Paul Ekman uses the term 'display rules' for the social agreement about which feelings can be properly shown when. Cultures sometimes vary tremendously in this regard. For example, Ekman and his colleagues in an Asian country studied the facial reactions of students to a horrific film about a teenage Aboriginal ritual ceremony. When the students watched the film with an authority figure present, their faces showed only the slightest hints of reaction. However, when they thought they were alone (though they were being taped by a secret camera) their faces twisted into vivid mixes of uncomfortable feelings. 
 
We have to ask ourselves a question. What kind of world will our children have to live in? Will they have air to breathe and food to eat? These are among the basic questions that were addressed at the first world meeting on the environment, attended by more than 100 world leaders and 30,000 other scientists, newspeople, and citizens concerned. These complex problems can no longer be solved by individual countries. Nations of the world must act together if we are to develop answers that will give a safe and healthy world to our children. World leaders should have the vision to protect our environment.
 
There is healing power in flowers  and in trees, fresh air, and sweet-smelling soil. Just walking through a garden or, for that matter, seeing one out your window, can lower blood pressure, reduce stress, and ease pain. Get out there and start digging, and the benefits multiply. While it may be basic and even old-fashioned, using gardening as a health care tool is blossoming. New or remodeled hospitals and nursing homes increasingly come equipped with healing gardens where patients and staff can get away from barren, indoor surroundings. Many also offer patients a chance to get their hands dirty and their minds engaged in caring for plants.
 
Most of us buy our food from supermarkets. In fact, many of us don't even get as far as the supermarket but make our choices at the click of a mouse. We have abandoned our relationship with the food we eat and with the people who produce our food. Is it any wonder that our children don't know where food comes from? Is it any wonder that we're tired, overweight, irritable, and low? It is important to be mindful about every single aspect of purchasing food. Try not to race through your shopping. In my hometown, nobody would buy a melon without feeling it and smelling it; and nobody would dream of buying a chicken without knowing which farm it came from and what it ate.
 
The above chart shows the top five preferred factors for male and female job seekers aged 55 to 79 in 2006. 'Payment' is the most preferred factor for both male and female job seekersin this age group. As for men, 'sustainability' is the second most favored factor in choosing a job. As for women, 'workload and time' is preferred to 'sustainability' in their job seeking. 'Commuting' is the least considered factor for both among the top five, but still it is a more favored factor for women than for men.
 
Located 1,100 feet above the tiny coastal town of Amalfi, Ravello has been described as closer to heaven than to the sea. Two irresistibly romantic gardens the Villa Rufolo and the Villa Cimbrone justify its reputation as 'the place where poets go to die.' Hotel guests can hope to experience breathtaking views of the deep blue sea from Palazzo Sasso. Constructed in the 12th century, now a deluxe hotel, Palazzo Sasso is all about the view. Richard Wagner found inspiration on this site in 1880, penning a part of Parsifal during a stay here. Every summer an internationally famous classical Wagner music festival takes place in the garden of the Villa Rufolo.
 
Recreational tree climbing is an evolving sport. It got its start in 1983, when Peter Jenkins began teaching all sorts of people, including children, how to climb trees safely using a rope and a harness and the recreational tree climbing technique. In the United States, it is now practiced by a thousand or so people but is rapidly growing in popularity. However, those who study rare plants are worried about recreational tree climbers. They fear that these climbers may try to climb the biggest and tallest trees if they learn their exact locations. Any contact between humans and rare plants can be disastrous for the plants.
 
A status symbol is something, usually an expensive or rare object, that indicates a high social status for its owner. What is considered a status symbol will differ among countries, based on the states of their economic and technological development, and common status symbols will change over time. Status symbols can indicate the cultural values of a society. Let's take some examples. In a society that cherishes honor or bravery, a battle wound would be more of a status symbol. In a commercial society, where having money or wealth is most important, things that can be brought by wealth, such as cars, houses, or fine clothing, are considered status symbols. And in a society where people craze for beauty, the condition of one's skin and body can be a status symbol.
 
The ability to sympathize with others reflects the multiple nature of the human being, his potentialities for many more selves and kinds of experience than any one being could express. This may be one of the things that enable us to seek through literature an enlargement of our experience. Although we may see some characters as outside ourselves that is, we may not identify with them completely we are nevertheless able to enter into their behavior and their emotions. Thus, the youth may identify with the aged, one gender with the other, and a reader of a particular limited social background with members of a different class or a different period.
 
Why is it that if you tickle yourself, it doesn't tickle, but if someone else tickles you, you cannot stand it? If someone was tickling you and you managed to remain relaxed, it would not affect you at all. Of course, it would be difficult to stay relaxed, because tickling causes tension for most of us, such as feelings of unease. The tension is due to physical contact, the lack of control, and the fear of whether it will tickle or hurt. However, when you try to tickle yourself, you are in complete control of the situation. There is no need to get tense and therefore, no reaction. You will notice the same effect if you close your eyes, breathe calmly, and manage to relax the next time someone tickles you. 
 
Newton was the first to point out that light is colorless, and that consequently color has to occur inside our brains. He wrote, "The waves themselves are not colored." Since his time, we have learned that light waves are characterized by different frequencies of vibration. When they enter the eye of an observer, they set off a chain of neurochemical events, the end product of which is an internal mental image that we call color. The essential point here is: What we perceive as color is not made up of color. Although an apple may appear red, its atoms are not themselves red.
 
If we want to describe our society in terms of age, we may come up with four age groups childhood, adolescence, maturity, and old age. We take it for granted that people of different ages behave differently. For example, we feel that a man in his thirties should act his age and not behave like an adolescent or an old man. Equally, we expect that, as they go through life, people of the same age will in some ways understand each other better than people of different ages. All this is part of expected ways of behaving in our social life, but it is not something that we  can  apply  in  formal  institutions  governed  by hard-and-fast rules.
 
I knocked at the door and was told to enter. I found myself in a large room, where the curtains were closed to allow no daylight in, and the candles were lit. In the center of the room, sitting at a table, was the strangest lady I had ever seen. She was wearing a wedding dress made of rich material. She had a bride's flowers in her hair, but her hair was white. She only had one white shoe on. Then I realized that over the years the flowers in her hair had died, and the bride inside the dress had grown old. Everything in the room was ancient. The only brightness in the room was in her dark old eyes that stared at me. 
 
One of the toughest parts of isolation is a lack of an expressive exit. With anger, you can get mad at someone and yell. With sadness, you can cry. But isolation feels like being in a room with no way out. And the longer you get stuck there, the harder it becomes to share the pain and sorrow. In isolation, hope disappears, despair rules, and you can no longer see a life beyond the invisible walls that imprison you. Some people find it helpful to work gently at driving themselves back into the world. In one case, a woman reported that after four miserable forced lunches with friends, she suddenly enjoyed the fifth one as she found herself laughing at a joke. For people who cannot push themselves, however, support groups are a good cure for isolation. They offer the opportunity for connection in a safe and controlled way. 
 
With the rise of the social sciences, and especially the anthropology of the 1930s and thereafter, words like 'savage' and 'primitive' began to disappear from the vocabulary of cultural studies, along with the notion that the people who had once borne these labels represented a biologically less evolved form of humanity. Medical science could find no difference in the brains of the former primitives to account for their different behavior; colonists necessarily observed that yesterday's 'savage' might be today's shopkeeper, soldier, or servant. As humanity began to look more like a family of potential equals, Westerners had to accept that the behavior found in native cultures was not the distinctive feature of savage 'otherness' but the expression of a capacity that may exist, for better or for worse, in all of us.
 
"There is a good reason to make this trip to the Island of Paradise," Captain Koppe told himself as he stepped out of the elevator car into the covered rooftop hangar of his house. The journey itself would be of use. There were times when it was important to be alone, to have time to think. Alone even from one's personal robot, from one's trusted wife. The outer doors opened, and the aircar slowly eased out into the driving rain. Suddenly, it was in the middle of the storm, jumping and swinging in the darkness, the rain crashing down on the windows with incredible violence. The storm boomed and roared outside the long-range aircar as it fought for altitude, the banging and clattering getting worse with every moment. Smooth sailing after the storm, the aircar arrived at the orbit of the Island of Paradise. Captain Koppe looked out at the Island through the window. He had been longing for it since his childhood. At that moment, his family picture posted on the inside of the aircar came into his eyes. All of a sudden, he had an irresistible urge to go to see his beloved wife and his two sons. He turned his back on the Island of Paradise and directed it toward the homeland. Captain Koppe sensed that this was one of those times when he had to be alone if for no other reason than to remind himself that he would have to make his decision alone. And he would have the duration of the flight all to himself. The thought appealed to him as he powered up the aircar and it lifted a half-meter or so off the deck of the hangar.
 
In ordinary life, you can be very comfortable with modern technology. Just as people search for books in bookstores, you can find and select what you want with a computer. You have already seen how much modern technology has changed the world. You can talk to each other in real time, looking at each other on a palm-sized phone. In the near future, I believe that most people will wear user-friendly computer equipment making their daily lives even more convenient. This would give us the chance to find information quickly and communicate with others no matter where we are or what we are doing.
 
The latest devices are fun to use for many tasks like browsing cyber space, but it is important to keep your distance from them as well. The constant noises of electronic devices like computers, mobile phones, fax machines, stereos, and home appliances will drown out the sounds of the birds singing in the morning, the wind blowing through the trees, or a pencil drawing on rough paper. Modern technology is addictive, so be sure to plan days away from its electromagnetic fields. Go out into nature and leave your mobile phone behind. Or just turn everything off and enjoy the peace and quiet. 
