As you are well aware, a great tragedy took place in our city last week. Some faulty electrical wiring led to a fire breaking out and eventually   destroying   an   entire block of homes in the suburbs. From the very beginning it was fanned by strong winds, but it would not have spread so far and so quickly, if our firefighters had been able to arrive at the scene in time. Our city has only one fire station located downtown. Would you please establish a new fire station in our area, since you are mayor of our city? We are in urgent need of one. I look forward to your response.

Ellen Langer learned from her mother how to prepare a roast. As a little girl,  she would watch as her mother cut off a small bit from one end of the meat before placing it in the roasting pan. As an adult,  she followed the same routine. However, a question occurred to her one day. Why did she have to cut off the end of the roast? She asked her mother, who just said she’d learned to do it from her own mother. Then Langer asked her grandmother. She explained that when she was a young mother, the only roasting pan she’d had was too short for a standard roast, so she had to cut off the end to fit it into the pan. She’d long since gotten roasting pans in
larger sizes and hadn’t cut an end off since.   Yet   for years both Langer and  her mother had mindlessly followed this routine.

In many countries, amongst younger people, the habit of reading newspapers has been on the decline and some of the dollars previously spent on newspaper advertising have migrated to the Internet. Of course some of this decline in newspaper reading has been due to the fact that we are doing more of our newspaper reading online. We can read the news of the day, or the latest on business, entertainment or whatever news on the websites of the New York Times, the Guardian or almost any other major newspaper in the world. Increasingly, we can access these stories wirelessly by mobile devices as well as our computers. Advertising dollars have simply been following the migration trail across to these new technologies.

We take it for granted that film directors are in the game of recycling. Adapting novels is one of the most respectable of movie projects, while a book   that   calls itself the novelization of a film is considered barbarous. Being a hybrid art as well as a late one, film has always been in a dialogue with other narrative genres. Movies were first seen as an exceptionally potent kind of illusionist theatre, the rectangle of the screen corresponding to the proscenium of a stage, on which appear actors. Starting in the early silent period, plays were regularly “turned into” films. But filming plays did not encourage the evolution of what truly was distinctive about a movie: the intervention of the camera its mobility of vision. As a source of plot, character, and dialogue, the novel seemed more suitable. Many early successes of cinema were adaptations of popular novels.

I watched the beautiful stretch of the shoreline as it floated into view. How wonderful it was! After two days at sea, I finally saw the land of infinite opportunities. There it was before me ― smiling and inviting; it was difficult for anyone to decline that invitation. I was full of great plans to find success in this unknown land. I had accepted a job offer from Dr. Gilbert, who   had opened a medical clinic at an inland village last year. It gave me great pleasure to think about how my dream would become a reality. I looked again at the coast. The line of distant mountains and shapes of houses were gradually emerging through the mist. They welcomed me with endless promises.

To say that we need to curb anger and our negative thoughts and emotions does not mean that we should deny our feelings. There is an important distinction to be made between denial and restraint. The latter constitutes a deliberate and voluntarily adopted discipline based on an appreciation of the benefits of doing so. This is very different from the case of someone who suppresses emotions such as anger out of a feeling that they need to present a facade of self-control, or out of fear of what others may think. Such behaviour is like closing a wound which is still infected. We are not talking about rule-following. Where denial and suppression occur, there comes the danger that in doing so the individual stores up anger and resentment. The trouble here is
that at some future point they may find they cannot contain these feelings any longer.

Have you ever heard anyone say of a dog, “Well, he’s very successful and lives in a beautiful house, but he’s not very happy”? One reason most dogs are much happier than most people is that dogs aren’t affected by external circumstances the way we are. I notice that even when it’s pouring rain outside, my dogs, Blue and Celeste, are still excited to go for a walk. As soon as I open the front door to look outside, they’re beside me in a flash, standing expectantly, ready for an adventure. I usually wait for a break in the downpour, and then we all dash out together. The fact that the ground is wet and there   are   mud puddles dotting the landscape	means  nothing to  the  dogs. While I’m carefully picking my way around   the   wet spots, the dogs are joyfully splashing right through them. They aren’t afraid to get their paws dirty.

In Belding’s ground squirrels, males leave home and females mature in their natal area. This male-biased dispersal creates an imbalance in the way males and females are related to those individuals around them ― females find themselves surrounded by relatives, while males are generally in areas with complete strangers. This asymmetry translates into females who warn close kin by emitting alarm calls, while males generally do not emit calls since their dispersal from their natal areas means their blood kin typically do not benefit from such a warning. Further support for the kinship-based alarm-calling hypothesis includes Sherman’s finding that in the rare instances when females do move away from their natal groups and into groups with far fewer relatives, they emit alarm calls less frequently than do native females.

By likening the eye to a camera, elementary biology textbooks help to produce a misleading   impression   of what perception entails. Only in terms of the physics of image formation do the eye and camera have anything in common. Both eye and camera have a lens that focuses light rays from the outside world into an image, and both have a means of adjusting the focus and brightness of that image. Both eye and camera have a light-sensitive layer onto which the image is cast (the retina and film, respectively). However, image formation is only the first step towards seeing. Superficial analogies between the eye and a camera obscure the much more fundamental difference between the two, which is that the camera merely records an image, whereas  the visual  system interprets it.

Recent evidence suggests that the common ancestor of Neanderthals and modern people, living about 400,000 years ago, may have already been using pretty sophisticated language. If language is based on genes and is the key to cultural evolution, and Neanderthals had language, then why did the Neanderthal toolkit show so little cultural change? Moreover, genes would undoubtedly have changed during the human revolution after 200,000 years ago, but more in response to new habits than as causes of them. At an earlier date, cooking selected mutations for smaller guts and mouths, rather than vice versa. At a later date, milk drinking selected for mutations for retaining lactose digestion into adulthood in people of western European and East African descent. The cultural horse comes before the genetic cart. The appeal to a genetic change driving evolution gets gene-culture co-evolution backwards: it is a top-down explanation for a bottom-up process.

To describe what happens to common resources as a result of human greed, Garrett Hardin used the example of an area of pasture on which all the cattle-owners are permitted to graze their animals free of charge. Each cattle-owner seeks to maximize his gain and in doing so considers the relative advantage and   disadvantage   of adding one more animal to the herd. The advantage is that the cattle-owner receives the whole   of   the   profit from the sale of the additional animal. The disadvantage is that the extra grazing contributes to the deterioration of the pasture. However, the disadvantage is shared among all the cattle-owners using the pasture, so the individual owner suffers only a fraction of the disadvantage. Consequently, the advantage is bound to exceed the disadvantage. Thus, it is inevitable that more and more animals will be brought onto the pasture until overgrazing totally destroys the pasture.

In physics, scientists invent models, or theories, to describe and predict the data we observe about the universe. Newton’s theory of gravity is one example; Einstein’s theory of gravity is another. Those theories, though they describe the same phenomenon, constitute very different versions of reality. Newton, for example , imagined that masses affect each other by   exerting   a force, while in Einstein’s theory the effects occur through a bending of space and time and there is no concept of gravity as a force. Either theory could be employed to describe, with great accuracy, the falling of an apple, but Newton’s would be much easier to use. On the other hand, for the calculations necessary for the satellite-based global positioning system (GPS) that helps you navigate while driving, Newton’s theory would give the wrong answer, and so Einstein’s must be used.

Anxiety has a damaging effect on mental performance of all kinds. It is in one sense a useful response gone awry  an overly zealous mental preparation for an anticipated threat. But such mental rehearsal is disastrous cognitive static when it becomes trapped in a stale routine that captures attention, intruding on all other attempts to focus elsewhere. Anxiety undermines the intellect. In a complex, intellectually demanding and high-pressure task such as that of air traffic controllers, for example, having chronically high anxiety is an almost sure predictor that a person will eventually fail in training or in the field. The anxious are more likely to fail even given superior scores on intelligence tests, as a study of 1,790 students in training for air traffic control posts discovered. Anxiety also sabotages academic performance of all kinds: 126 different studies of more than 36,000 people found that the more prone to anxieties a person is, the poorer his or her academic performance is.

Researchers have suggested that maintaining good social relations depends on two complementary   processes: being sensitive to the needs of others and being motivated to make amends or pay compensation when a violation does occur. In short, maintaining good social relations depends on the capacity for guilt. Martin L. Hoffman, who has focused on the guilt that comes from harming others, suggests that the motivational basis for this guilt is empathetic distress. Empathetic distress occurs when people realize that their actions have caused   harm   or pain to another person. Motivated by feelings of guilt, they are inclined to make amends for their actions. Making amends serves to repair damaged social relations and restore group harmony.

The above graph shows the total number of researchers and the number of researchers per 1,000 people in the EAP (economically active population) of Korea from 1997 to 2007.  Compared to the previous year, both numbers recorded each year showed an increase except for the numbers recorded in 1998. From 2004 to 2007 Korea had more than 200,000 researchers each year, recording the largest number in 2007. The number of researchers per 1,000 people in the EAP in 2007 was twice as large as that in 1999. The annual increase in the total number of researchers was the largest between 1998 and 1999.

Gregorio Dati was a successful merchant of Florence, who entered into many profitable partnerships dealing in wool, silk, and other merchandise. His career, however, especially early on, knew the vicissitudes characteristic of Renaissance business. For example, while   he   was   en route to Spain as his enterprise’s traveling partner, a role typical for young men, pirates robbed him of all   his goods, including a consignment of pearls, and of his own clothes. His recovery from such losses followed in part from four successive marriages. Later in life, he was honored to serve a number of posts in the city government. Over the years he wrote a “diary,” actually an occasional record in which he kept accounts of his commercial and family life. Men of his kind pioneered this form of writing about the public and private self.

The Great Salt Lake is the largest salt lake in the Western Hemisphere. The lake is fed by the Bear, Weber, and Jordan rivers and has no outlet. At the close of the Ice Age the entire region was submerged beneath a lake of meltwater, and overflow from the lake flowed into the Pacific Ocean through the Snake and Columbia rivers. The great climatic change the lake underwent and continued evaporation, exceeding the inflow of fresh water, reduced the lake to one-twentieth of its former size. The majority of salt in the Great Salt Lake is a remnant of dissolved salts that are present in all fresh water. As the water evaporated, the traces of dissolved salts were gradually concentrated in the shrinking lake.

Although praise may encourage children to continue an activity while an adult is watching, according to recent studies, they are less likely to continue the activity when the adult leaves or to repeat the activity in the future. Rather than increasing children’s commitment to positive behavior, praise encourages children to find ways to get future verbal “goodies” from important adults. In other words, praise is like the large pink icing rose in the center of a cake. It is appealing and at first bite its sweetness tastes wonderful. A couple more bites still might taste good, but it quickly becomes overly sweet. It has only one simple flavor; we soon tire of it and if we eat very much at any one time, we might even feel slightly ill. It may provide some quick energy but it provides no nourishment and doesn’t support growth or health.

What’s dangerous about the Internet is, because it has the aura of technology around it, it has a totally undeserved instant credibility. The fact that information is conveyed in this high-tech manner   somehow   adds authority to what is conveyed, when in fact the Internet is a global conveyer of unfiltered, unedited, untreated information. It is the greatest tool we have not only for making people smarter quicker, but also for making people dumber faster. Rumors published on the Internet now have a way of immediately becoming facts. This is particularly true among people who might not themselves have access to the Internet but hear a piece of news or gossip from the people around them who do have access.

Why is it difficult to find a runner who competes equally well in both 100-m and 10,000-m races? The primary reason is that our muscles contain   two   main types of muscle fibers, called slow and fast muscle fibers. Slow muscle fibers are muscle cells that can sustain repeated contractions but don’t generate a lot of quick power for the body. They perform better in endurance exercises, like long-distance running, which require slow, steady muscle activity. Fast muscle fibers are cells that can contract more quickly and powerfully than   slow muscle fibers but fatigue much more easily; they function best for short bursts of intense activity, like weight lifting or sprinting.

Scientists should be careful to reduce bias in their experiments. A bias occurs when what the scientist expects changes how the results are viewed. This expectation might cause a scientist to select a result from one trial over those from other trials. Scientists can lessen bias by running as many trials as possible and by keeping accurate notes of each observation made. Valid experiments also must have data that are measurable. This allows others to compare the results to data they obtain from a similar experiment. Most importantly, the experiment must be repeatable. Findings are supportable when other scientists perform the same experiment and get the same results.

I once heard a woman say, “Of course, he’s successful. It’s in his genes.” I knew she wasn’t talking about me, because I was wearing shorts. I also knew she was wrong. Success is not in our genes. Not all children of successful people become successful themselves. Many kids have everything going for them and end up total disasters. They do none of the things that helped their parents succeed. The number of unsuccessful people who come from successful parents is proof that genes have nothing to do with success. You can’t change your genes, but you can change the people you imitate. The choice is up to you, so why not imitate the best? There are hundreds of great people to imitate and copy. They have terrific advice about what helped them succeed. Jot down   notes   and   carry them around in your pants pocket. Then success will be in your jeans, even if it’s not in your genes.

In the early 1990s Norway introduced a carbon tax on emissions from energy, and it did seem to encourage environmental innovation. However, unexpected circumstances came when they tried to apply this approach globally. Agreeing on international taxes on emissions was notoriously hard, as we already know that the European Union has experienced terrible difficulties in trying to regularize the complex and myriad differences in its members’ sales taxes. Besides, although Sweden, Finland, and Denmark barely decided to introduce carbon taxes during the 1990s, they have not harmonized their approaches with Norway or with each other. If   such similar countries can’t come to an agreement,   there   is little hope for doing so with the vastly more diverse countries in the rest of the world.

Apologies often fail. One reason apologies fail is that the “offender” and the “victim” usually see the event differently. Examining   personal   narratives,   researchers have found that those who cause harm tend to minimize the offense probably to protect themselves from shame and guilt. They also tend to downplay the consequences of their actions. These tendencies can inflame the anger of the hurt person, who, in contrast, may see an offense as bigger than it really is. When sincere apologies are offered in an ordinary human   relationship,   they   are readily accepted by the victims and reconciliations ensue.
Each person has his or her own truth, and there is distortion on both sides.
Therefore, to apologize sincerely we must first listen attentively to how the other person   really   feels   about what happened not simply assert what we think happened.

When you walk into a store, you are besieged by information. Even purchases that seem simple can quickly turn into a cognitive quagmire. Look at the jam aisle. A glance at the shelves can inspire a whole range of questions. Should you buy the smooth-textured strawberry jam or the one with less sugar? Does the more expensive jam taste better? Rational models of decision-making suggest that the way to find the best product is to take all of this information into account and to carefully analyze the different brands on display. But this method can backfire. When we spend too much time thinking in the supermarket, we can trick ourselves into choosing the wrong things for the wrong reasons. Making better decisions when picking out jams or bottles of wine is best done with the emotional brain, which generates its verdict automatically.

Once upon a time, there was only one way to launch a hit album: radio. Nothing else reached as many people, as often. Getting on a radio playlist was difficult, but once a song was in heavy rotation on the radio, it had a high probability of selling. Then, in the 1980s, came MTV, which became the second way to create a hit. It had even more limited capacity for new music, but its influence over a generation was unparalleled. For the music labels, those were good times; it was a brutally competitive business,   but   it was   a   business   they   knew. They understood the rules, and they could earn
their keep by working them. But now rock radio is in seemingly terminal decline and MTV doesn’t show many music videos anymore. So how to market
music? Labels know the answer lies online, tapping the word-of-mouth forces that are replacing traditional marketing in creating demand, but they’re still trying to figure out exactly how best to do it.

Research has   shown   that   we   automatically   assign   to good-looking   individuals   such   favorable   traits   as   talent,
kindness, honesty, and intelligence. Furthermore, we make these judgements without being aware that physical attractiveness plays a role in the process. Some consequences of this unconscious assumption that “good-looking equals good” scare me. For example, a study of the 1974 Canadian federal elections found that attractive candidates received more than   two and a half times as many votes as unattractive candidates. Despite such evidence of favoritism toward handsome politicians, follow-up research demonstrated that voters did not realize their bias.In fact, 73 percent of Canadian voters surveyed denied in the strongest possible terms that their votes had been influenced by physical appearance; only 14 percent even allowed for the possibility of such influence. Voters can deny the impact of   attractiveness   on electability all they want, but evidence has continued to confirm its troubling presence.

“Why, in country after country that mandated seat belts, was it impossible to see the promised reduction in road accident fatalities?” John Adams, professor of geography at University College London, wrote in one of his many essays on risk. “It appears that measures that protect drivers from the consequences of bad driving encourage bad driving. The principal effect of seat belt legislation has been a shift in the burden of risk from those already best protected in cars, to the most vulnerable, pedestrians and cyclists, outside cars.” Adams started to group these counterintuitive findings under the concept of risk compensation, the idea that humans have an inborn tolerance for risk. As safety features are added to vehicles and roads, drivers feel less vulnerable and tend to take more chances. The phenomenon can be observed in all aspects of our daily lives. Children who wear protective gear during their games have a tendency to take more physical risks.
Hikers take more risks when they think a rescuer can access them easily.

What should writers do when they’re teased by intriguing but elusive ideas, by hints of thoughts that seem too vague to be expressed in words? Edgar Allan Poe’s advice is simple: They should pick up their pens (or, he might add today, power up their laptops). Poe dismisses the argument that any ideas are so deep or subtle that they’re appreciated only by a privileged few.
“For my own part,” he said in an 1846 article in Graham’s Magazine, “I have never had a thought which I could not set down in words, with even more distinctness than that with which I conceived it.” The “mere act” of writing, Poe believed, helps writers make their ideas not only clearer but more logical. To use his phrase, the process of writing contributes to “the logicalization of thought.”
Whenever he felt dissatisfied with a vague “conception of the brain,” Poe said, “I resort forthwith to the pen, for the purpose of obtaining, through its aid, the necessary form, consequence and precision.”
Today’s advocates of freewriting would probably agree with Poe on this point. Sometimes, the best way to resolve a dilemma  whether it’s a writing dilemma or a thinking dilemma  is simply to start writing.

On May 29th there was a heavy rain but the sun came out the next day. Driving back from the village, I stopped the car   because   a   small   woodchuck   was   traveling along the road, its belly almost flat to the gravel. I got out, took off my sweater, threw it over the woodchuck and wrapped him in it, then put him on the floor of the car while I drove home. I guessed the rain had washed out his burrow. If I hadn’t come along he would have eventually died of starvation. Rescuing him, I felt as large as Fate. At home I put him in the bathtub and my husband found a large carton. He put cat litter in the bottom and straw on top of that. When I put the chuck in, he gratefully burrowed into the straw. I made a mixture of milk and baby cereal for him. When I gave it to the chuck, he ate it greedily. He accepted me quickly. If I put my hand in the carton, he nibbled my fingers. It became clear that I was imprinting the woodchuck and vice versa. Very shortly the carton seemed too small. I offered him a nest made of a covered box, bedded with straw and with a round doorway cut in the front. He knew instantly that a hole spells home, and he dashed inside. Every time I came to feed him, he jumped into my lap as eagerly as ever. As the months passed, the chuck grew bigger and bigger. My   husband   remarked that if I didn’t do something soon, I would be chased around for the rest of my days by a   15-pound woodchuck begging for milk. I decided to put him in a new burrow. I found a hole along the wall of our orchard, put the chuck near it and left him. I continued to visit him with his milk. Each time he greeted me joyfully, drank greedily, and tried persistently to follow me back into the house. The parting came unexpectedly. I went away on a brief trip. When I came back, I saw no sign of him. In the spring when I see a large, handsome woodchuck playing on the grass, I will hope that it is he.