One difference between winners and losers is how they handle losing. Even for the best companies and most accomplished professionals, long track records of success are punctuated by slips, slides, and mini-turnarounds. Even the team that wins the game might make mistakes and lag behind for part of it. That’s why the ability to recover quickly is so important. Troubles are ubiquitous. Surprises can fall from the sky like volcanic ash and appear to change everything. That’s why one prominent scholar said, “Anything can look like a failure in the middle.” Thus, a key factor in high achievement is bouncing back from the low points

As I walked to the train station, I felt the warm sun on my back. I caught my train on time. It arrived at my destination ten minutes early, which was perfect, as I was due to present my new idea to the company at 10 a.m. The presentation went better than expected, and my manager seemed particularly pleased. Later that day, my manager called me into her office. She smiled at me and said, “James, you’ve been with us for six years now. How would you feel if I were to offer you the Sales Director position in London?” Sales Director in London! Wow! This was a dream come true for me. I couldn’t believe what I had just heard!

Many disciplines are better learned by entering into the doing than by mere abstract study. This is often the case with the most abstract as well as the seemingly more practical disciplines. For example, within the philosophical disciplines, logic must be learned through the use of examples and actual problem solving. Only after some time and struggle does the student begin to develop the insights and intuitions that enable him to see the centrality and relevance of this mode of thinking. This learning by doing is essential in many of the sciences. For instance, only after a good deal of observation do the sparks in the bubble chamber become recognizable as the specific movements of identifiable particles.

. The most normal and competent child encounters what seem like insurmountable problems in living. But by playing them out, he may become able to cope with them in a step-by-step process. He often does so in symbolic ways that are hard for even him to understand, as he is reacting to inner processes whose origin may be buried deep in his unconscious. This may result in play that makes little sense to us at the moment, since we do not know the purposes it serves. When there is no immediate danger, it is usually best to approve of the child’s play without interfering. Efforts to assist him in his struggles, while well intentioned, may divert him from seeking and eventually finding the solution that will serve him best.

. At some time in their lives, most people pause to reflect on their own moral principles and on the practical implications of those principles, and they sometimes think about what principles people should have or which moral standards can be best justified. When a person accepts a moral principle, naturally the person believes the principle is important and well justified. But there is more to moral principles than that. When a principle is part of a person’s moral code, that person is strongly motivated toward the conduct required by the principle, and against behavior that conflicts with that principle. The person will tend to feel guilty when his or her own conduct violates that principle and to disapprove of others whose behavior conflicts with it. Likewise, the person will tend to hold in esteem those whose conduct shows an abundance of the motivation required by the principle.

The key to successful risk taking is to understand that the actions you’re taking should be the natural next step. One of the mistakes we often make when confronting a risk situation is our tendency to focus on the end result. Skiers who are unsure of themselves often do this. They’ll go to the edge of a difficult slope, look all the way down to the bottom, and determine that the slope is too steep for them to try. The ones that decide to make it change their focus by analyzing what they need to do to master the first step, like getting through the first mogul on the hill. Once they get there, they concentrate on the next mogul, and over the course of the run, they end up at the bottom of what others thought was an impossible mountain.

The 18th century is called the Golden Age of botanical painting, and Georg Dionysius Ehret is often praised as the greatest botanical artist of the time. Born in Heidelberg, Germany, he was the son of a gardener who taught him much about art and nature. As a young man, Ehret traveled around Europe, largely on foot, observing plants and developing his artistic skills. In Holland, he became acquainted with the Swedish naturalist Carl Linnaeus. Through his collaborations with Linnaeus and others, Ehret provided illustrations for a number of significant horticultural publications. Ehret’s reputation for scientific accuracy gained him many commissions from wealthy patrons, particularly in England, where he eventually settled.

The above graph shows the percentages of Americans aged 12-17 who posted certain types of personal information on social media sites in 2006 and in 2012. The year 2012 saw an overall percentage increase in each category of posted personal information. In both years, the percentage of the young Americans who posted photos of themselves was the highest of all the categories. In 2006, the percentage of those who posted city or town names was higher than that of those who posted school names. Compared to 2006, 2012 recorded an eighteen percent increase in the category of cell phone numbers

We will be hosting nine short films, which were written, directed, acted and produced by students from the College of Performing Arts & Film, Pamil University. ∙Date: Friday, November 21, 2014 ∙Time: 7:00 pm－10:00 pm ∙Place: Pamil Auditorium, Pamil University ∙Price: $10 (general admission) $5 (discount for all university students with a valid ID) - Tickets can be purchased from the student union office from Monday, November 17, 2014. - All tickets are non-refundable. - FREE beverage included in ticket price ∙For more information, please call the student union office at (343) 777-8338

AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAM December 1, 2014－January 30, 2015 Are you looking for fun and exciting classes? Come on down to the Green Hills Community Center to check out our FREE program for local teens! Classes ∙Art, Music, Taekwondo ∙Classes with fewer than 20 applicants will be canceled. Time & Place ∙The program will run from Monday to Friday (5:00 pm to 7:00 pm). ∙All classes will take place in the Simpson Building. How to sign up ∙Registration forms must be sent by email to the address below by 6:00 pm, November 28. Please download the forms from our website at www.greenhills.org. For additional information, please visit our website or send an email to bill@greenhills.org.

During the early stages when the aquaculture industry was rapidly expanding, mistakes were made and these were costly both in terms of direct losses and in respect of the industry’s image. High-density rearing led to outbreaks of infectious diseases that in some cases devastated not just the caged fish, but local wild fish populations too. The negative impact on local wildlife inhabiting areas close to the fish farms continues to be an ongoing public relations problem for the industry. Furthermore, a general lack of knowledge and insufficient care being taken when fish pens were initially constructed meant that pollution from excess feed and fish waste created huge barren underwater deserts. These were costly lessons to learn, but now stricter regulations are in place to ensure that fish pens are placed in sites ④ where there is good water flow to remove fish waste. This, in addition to other methods that decrease the overall amount of uneaten food, has helped aquaculture to clean up its act.


Nancy was struggling to see the positive when her teen daughter was experiencing a negative perspective on her life and abilities. In her desire to parent intentionally, she went into her daughter’s room and noted one positive accomplishment she had observed. “I know you’ve been having a hard time lately, and you aren’t feeling really good or positive about your life. But you did a great job cleaning up your room today, and I know that must have been a big effort for you.” The next day, to Nancy’s surprise, the teen girl seemed somewhat cheerful. In passing, she said, “Mom, thanks for saying the positive thing about me yesterday. I was feeling so down and couldn’t think of anything good about myself. After you said that positive thing, it helped me see one good quality in myself, and I’ve been holding onto those words.”

While the eye sees at the surface, the ear tends to penetrate below the surface. Joachim-Ernst Berendt points out that the ear is the only sense that fuses an ability to measure with an ability to judge. We can discern different colors, but we can give a precise number to different sounds. Our eyes do not let us perceive with this kind of precision . An unmusical person can recognize an octave and, perhaps once instructed, a quality of tone, that is, a C or an F-sharp. Berendt points out that there are few ‘acoustical illusions’ ― something sounding like something that in fact it is not ― while there are many optical illusions. The ears do not lie. The sense of hearing gives us a remarkable connection with the invisible, underlying order of things. Through our ears we gain access to vibration, which underlies everything around us. The sense of tone and music in another’s voice gives us an enormous amount of information about that person, about her stance toward life, about her intentions.

The concept of humans doing multiple things at a time has been studied by psychologists since the 1920s, but the term “multitasking” didn’t exist until the 1960s. It was used to describe computers, not people. Back then, ten megahertz was so fast that a new word was needed to describe a computer’s ability to quickly perform many tasks. In retrospect, they probably made a poor choice, for the expression “multitasking” is inherently deceptive. Multitasking is about multiple tasks alternately sharing one resource (the CPU), but in time the context was flipped and it became interpreted to mean multiple tasks being done simultaneously by one resource (a person). It was a clever turn of phrase that’s misleading, for even computers can process only one piece of code at a time. When they “multitask,” they switch back and forth, alternating their attention until both tasks are done. The speed with which computers tackle multiple tasks feeds the illusion that everything happens at the same time, so comparing computers to humans can be confusing.

My friend was disappointed that scientific progress has not cured the world’s ills by abolishing wars and starvation; that gross human inequality is still widespread; that happiness is not universal. My friend made a common mistake ― a basic misunderstanding in the nature of knowledge. Knowledge is amoral ― not immoral but morality neutral. It can be used for any purpose, but many people assume it will be used to further their favorite hopes for society ―and this is the fundamental flaw. Knowledge of the world is one thing; its uses create a separate issue. To be disappointed that our progress in understanding has not remedied the social ills of the world is a legitimate view, but ① to confuse this with the progress of knowledge is absurd. To argue that knowledge is not progressing because of the African or Middle Eastern conflicts misses the point. There is nothing inherent in knowledge that dictates any specific social or moral application.

. According to a renowned French scholar, the growth in the size and complexity of human populations was the driving force in the evolution of science. Early, small communities had to concentrate all their physical and mental effort on survival; their thoughts were focused on food and religion. As communities became larger, some people had time to reflect and debate. They found that they could understand and predict events better if they reduced passion and prejudice, replacing these with observation and inference. But while a large population may have been necessary, in itself it was not sufficient for science to germinate. Some empires were big, but the rigid social control required to hold an empire together was not beneficial to science, just as it was not beneficial to reason. The early nurturing and later flowering of science required a large and loosely structured, competitive community to support original thought and freewheeling incentive. The rise in commerce and the decline of authoritarian religion allowed science to follow reason in seventeenth-century Europe.

New media can be defined by four characteristics simultaneously: they are media at the turn of the 20th and 21st centuries which are both integrated and interactive and use digital code and hypertext as technical means. It follows that their most common alternative names are multimedia, interactive media and digital media. By using this definition, it is easy to identify media as old or new. For example , traditional television is integrated as it contains images, sound and text, but it is not interactive or based on digital code. The plain old telephone was interactive, but not integrated as it only transmitted speech and sounds and it did not work with digital code. In contrast, the new medium of interactive television adds interactivity and digital code. Additionally , the new generations of mobile or fixed telephony are fully digitalized and integrated as they add text, pictures or video and they are connected to the Internet.

A currently popular attitude is to blame technology or technologists for having brought on the environmental problems we face today, and thus to try to slow technological advance by blocking economic growth. We believe this view to be thoroughly misguided. If technology produced automobiles that pollute the air, it is because pollution was not recognized as a problem which engineers had to consider in their designs. Obviously, technology that produces pollution is generally cheaper, but now that it has been decided that cleaner cars are wanted, less polluting cars will be produced; cars which scarcely pollute at all could even be made. This last option, however, would require several years and much investment. Although technology is responsive to the will of the people, it can seldom respond instantaneously and is never free.

The impact of color has been studied for decades. For example, in a factory, the temperature was maintained at 72℉ and the walls were painted a cool blue-green. The employees complained of the cold. The temperature was maintained at the same level, but the walls were painted a warm coral. The employees stopped complaining about the temperature and reported they were quite comfortable. The psychological effects of warm and cool hues seem to be used effectively by the coaches of the Notre Dame football team. The locker rooms used for half-time breaks were reportedly painted to take advantage of the emotional impact of certain hues. The home-team room was painted a bright red, which kept team members excited or even angered. The visiting-team room was painted a blue-green, which had a calming effect on the team members. The success of this application of color can be noted in the records set by Notre Dame football teams.
