Dear Coach Johnson,
My name is Christina Markle, Bradley Markle’s mother. 
Bradley and I were thrilled to learn that you’re holding 
your Gymnastics Summer Camp again this year. So I 
didn’t hesitate to sign up and pay the non-refundable 
deposit for the second week program, which is from July 
13 to 17. But today I remembered that our family is 
going to get back from a trip on July 13, and I’m afraid 
Bradley won’t be able to make it on the very first day of 
the program. Rather than make him skip the day, I’d like 
to check to see if he could switch to the third week 
program. Please let us know if that’s possible. Thank you.
Sincerely,
Christina Markle


I’m leaving early tomorrow morning, finally! I’ve always 
wanted to explore the Amazon, the unknown and mysterious 
world. At this hour, the great Emerald Amazon Explorer should 
be at the port waiting for me to get on board. Freshwater dolphins 
will escort me on the playful river, and 500 species of birds, half 
a dozen species of monkeys, and numerous colorful butterflies 
will welcome me into their kingdom. I wish I could camp in the 
wild and enjoy the company of mosquitos, snakes, and spiders. 
I’d love to make the world’s largest rainforest home. My heart 
swells as much as my chubby bags; yet, I’d better get some sleep 
since a long, tough journey is ahead of me	


Assertiveness may seem to some people to be uncharacteristic 
of counselors. If your picture of a counselor is someone who 
never disagrees, always “goes along,” wants everything to be 
nice all the time, and only does what other people want him or 
her to do, this is not a picture of an assertive counselor. Being 
assertive does not have to mean being disagreeable. Being a 
counselor does not mean that you should simply be silent 
when someone tells a racist joke. An assertive counselor 
would find a way to call that person’s attention to the fact 
that the joke is racist, explaining how it offended the hearer, 
and suggesting ways similar jokes could be avoided. Being 
assertive is a highly developed skill ― it should fit nicely in 
the counselor’s repertoire of techniques.


The negative effects of extrinsic motivators such as grades 
have been documented with students from different cultures. 
Although this matter is more complex than simply regarding 
all extrinsic rewards as controlling or diminishing learning, 
we agree with Richard Ryan and his colleagues that people 
across different cultures are likely to express more satisfaction 
with their lives when their primary goals are intrinsic rather 
than extrinsic. Another consistent research finding is that 
when a learning activity is undertaken explicitly to attain 
some extrinsic reward, people respond by seeking the least 
demanding way of ensuring the reward. Since there are three 
decades of evidence that dominating instruction with a system 
of controlling external rewards may contribute to inferior 
learning, using a pedagogy based on theories of intrinsic 
motivation appears to be a more reasonable and effective 
approach to enhancing learning among culturally diverse 
students.


Twin sirens hide in the sea of history, tempting those 
seeking to understand and appreciate the past onto the reefs of 
misunderstanding and misinterpretation. These twin dangers 
are temporocentrism and ethnocentrism. Temporocentrism is 
the belief that your times are the best of all possible times. All 
other times are thus inferior. Ethnocentrism is the belief that 
your culture is the best of all possible cultures. All other 
cultures are thus inferior. Temporocentrism and ethnocentrism 
unite to cause individuals and cultures to judge all other 
individuals and cultures by the “superior” standards of their 
current culture. This leads to a total lack of perspective when 
dealing with past and / or foreign cultures and a resultant 
misunderstanding and misappreciation of them. Temporocentrism 
and ethnocentrism tempt moderns into unjustified criticisms 
of the peoples of the past.


When we remark with surprise that someone “looks young” 
for his or her chronological age, we are observing that we 
all age biologically at different rates. Scientists have good 
evidence that this apparent difference is real. It is likely that age 
changes begin in different parts of the body at different times 
and that the rate of annual change varies among various cells, 
tissues, and organs, as well as from person to person. Unlike 
the passage of time, biological aging resists easy measurement. 
What we would like to have is one or a few measurable 
biological changes that mirror all other biological age changes 
without reference to the passage of time, so that we could say, 
for example, that someone who is chronologically eighty years 
old is biologically sixty years old. This kind of measurement 
would help explain why one eighty-year-old has so many more 
youthful qualities than does another eighty-year-old, who may 
be biologically eighty or even ninety years old.


The Atitlán Giant Grebe was a large, flightless bird that had 
evolved from the much more widespread and smaller 
Pied-billed Grebe. By 1965 there were only around 80 birds 
left on Lake Atitlán. One immediate reason was easy enough 
to spot: the local human population was cutting down the reed 
beds at a furious rate. This destruction 
was driven by the needs of a fast growing mat-making 
industry. But there were other problems. An American airline 
was intent on developing the lake as a tourist destination for 
fishermen. However, there was a major problem with this 
idea: the lake lacked any suitable sporting 
fish! To compensate for this rather obvious defect, a specially 
selected species of fish called the Large-mouthed Bass was 
introduced. The introduced individuals immediately turned 
their attentions to the crabs and small fish that lived in the lake, 
thus competing with the few remaining 
grebes for food. There is also little doubt that they sometimes 
gobbled up the zebra-striped Atitlán Giant Grebe’s chicks.


The dancers stood on a two-step elevated stage, so that there 
was a natural gap between those who came to dance and those 
who came to watch. The host randomly pulled the name of a 
well-known dancer, Linx, out of a hat. People cheered. 
According to the format, Linx had to “call out” another dancer 
to battle him on stage. Instead of deliberately choosing 
someone, however, he decided to select his opponent 
randomly by making himself into a human spin-wheel. He 
propelled himself into a backspin, covered his eyes, and 
extended his arm above his head. When his body finally 
stopped spinning, his arm pointed away from the dancers 
on stage and directly at Dan Tres, standing among the 
spectators. The crowd erupted in “Ohhhhs!” because he
was an older family man who had not danced hip-hop in many 
years, while the much younger Linx was a nimble b-boy. Linx 
looked embarrassed, but nonetheless he called out the 
respected elder to battle.


When two cultures come into contact, they do not 
exchange every cultural item. If that were the case, there 
would be no cultural differences in the world today. Instead, 
only a small number of cultural elements ever spread from 
one culture to another. Which cultural item is accepted 
depends largely on the item’s use and compatibility with 
already existing cultural traits. For example, it is not likely 
that men’s hair dyes designed to “get out the gray” will spread 
into parts of rural Africa where a person’s status is elevated 
with advancing years. Even when a(n) innovation is 
consistent with a society’s needs, there is still no guarantee 
that it will be accepted. For example, most people in the 
United States using US customary units (e.g., inch, foot, yard, 
mile, etc.) have resisted adopting the metric system even 
though making such a change would enable US citizens to 
interface with the rest of the world more efficiently.


Some distinctions between good and bad are hardwired into 
our biology. Infants enter the world ready to respond to pain as 
bad and to sweet (up to a point) as good. In many situations, 
however, the boundary between good and bad is a reference 
point that changes over time and depends on the immediate 
circumstances. Imagine that you are out in the country on a cold 
night, inadequately dressed for the pouring rain, your clothes 
soaked. A stinging cold wind completes your misery. As you 
wander around, you find a large rock that provides some shelter 
from the fury of the elements. The biologist Michel Cabanac 
would call the experience of that moment intensely pleasurable 
because it functions, as pleasure normally does, to indicate the 
direction of a biologically significant improvement of circumstances. 
The pleasant relief will not last very long, of course, and you 
will soon be shivering behind the rock again, driven by your 
renewed suffering to seek better shelter.


Research and development for seed improvement has long 
been a public domain and government activity for the 
common good. However, private capital started to flow into 
seed production and took it over as a sector of the economy, 
creating an artificial split between the two aspects of the 
seed’s nature: its role as means of production and its role as 
product. This process gained pace after the invention of 
hybrid breeding of maize in the late 1920s. Today most maize 
seed cultivated are hybrids. The companies that sell them are 
able to keep the distinct parent lines from farmers, and the 
grain that they produce is not suited for seed saving and 
replanting. The combination guarantees that farmers will 
have to buy more seed from the company each season. In the 
1990s the extension of patent laws as the only intellectual 
property rights tool into the area of seed varieties started to 
create a growing market for private seed companies.


Long before Walt Whitman wrote Leaves of Grass, poets had 
addressed themselves to fame. Horace, Petrarch, Shakespeare, 
Milton, and Keats all hoped that poetic greatness would grant 
them a kind of earthly immortality. Whitman held a similar 
faith that for centuries the world would value his poems. But 
to this ancient desire to live forever on the page, he added a 
new sense of fame. Readers would not simply attend to the 
poet’s work; they would be attracted to the greatness of his 
personality. They would see in his poems a vibrant cultural 
performance, an individual springing from the book with 
tremendous charisma and appeal. Out of the political rallies 
and electoral parades that marked Jacksonian America, Whitman 
defined poetic fame in relation to the crowd. Other poets 
might look for their inspiration from the goddess of poetry. 
Whitman’s poet sought the approval of his contemporaries.
In the instability of American democracy, fame would be 
dependent on celebrity, on the degree to which the people 
rejoiced in the poet and his work.


Some people make few intentional changes in life. Sure, 
over time they may get fatter, gather lines, and go gray. 
But they wear their hair the same way, buy the same 
brand of shoes, eat the same breakfast, and stick to 
routines for no reason other than the ease of a 
comfortable, predictable life. Yet as both research and 
real life show, many others do make important changes.
They train for marathons, quit smoking, switch fields, 
write plays, take up the guitar, or learn to tango even if 
they never danced before in their lives. What is the 
difference between these two groups of people?
 It’s their perspective. People who change do not question 
whether change is possible or look for reasons they 
cannot change. They simply decide on a change they 
want and do what is necessary to accomplish it. 
Changing, which always stems from a firm decision, 
becomes job number one.


Sometimes, after punishment has been administered a 
few times, it needn’t be continued, because the mere threat 
of punishment is enough to induce the desired behavior. 
Psychologists call this avoidance training because the 
person is learning to avoid the possibility of a punishing 
consequence. Avoidance training is responsible for many 
everyday behaviors. It has taught you to carry an 
umbrella when it looks like rain to avoid the punishment 
of getting wet, and to keep your hand away from a hot 
iron to avoid the punishment of a burn.
Avoidance training, however, doesn’t always work in our 
favor. For instance, a child who has been repeatedly 
criticized for poor performance on math may learn to 
dodge difficult math problems in order to avoid further 
punishment.
Unfortunately, because of this avoidance, the child fails 
to develop his math skills and therefore improve the 
capabilities he has, and so a vicious cycle has set in. 
The avoidance must be unlearned through some positive 
experiences with math in order for this cycle to be broken.


Remember when you were little and you imagined that 
adults had infinite power? Surely someone who could drive 
the car, open the juice container, and reach the sink could 
make it stop raining. I think that’s the same expectation 
that we have with respect to our dogs and their ability to 
smell. Because they are so good at using their noses, 
we assume that they can smell anything, anytime. But 
dogs use other senses, too, and the brains of both humans 
and dogs tend to intensify one sense at a time. Many 
owners have been snapped at by their dogs when they 
returned home with a new hairdo or a new coat. Surprised by the vision of an unfamiliar silhouette pushing 
into the house, these dogs were using their eyes instead of 
their noses.  Their 
noses may be remarkable, but they’re not always switched on. 


Food intake is essential for the survival of every living 
organism. The failure to detect spoiled or toxic food can 
have deadly consequences. Therefore, it is not surprising that 
humans use all their five senses to analyze food quality. A 
first judgment about the value of a food source is made on 
its appearance and smell. Food that looks and smells 
attractive is taken into the mouth. Here, based on a complex 
sensory analysis that is not only restricted to the sense of taste 
but also includes smell, touch, and hearing, the final decision 
whether to swallow or reject food is made. Frequently, 
this complex interaction between different senses is 
inappropriately referred to as ‘taste’ although it should be 
better called flavor perception, because it uses multiple 
senses.


Performance must be judged in terms of what is under 
the control of the individuals being evaluated rather than 
those influences on performance that are beyond their 
control. There can be broad, influential factors, sometimes 
of an economic nature, that hold down the performance 
of everyone being judged. One example is in sales. If there 
is a general downturn in the economy and products or 
services are not being purchased with the same frequency 
as in the previous year, sales could be down, for example, 
by an average of 15%. This 15% (actually －15%) figure 
would then represent “average” performance. Perhaps the 
best salesperson in the year had only a 3% drop in sales 
over the previous year. Thus, “good” performance in this 
situation is a smaller loss compared to some average or 
norm group.


We might describe science that has no known practical 
value as basic science or basic research. Our exploration of 
worlds such as Jupiter would be called basic science, and it is 
easy to argue that basic science is not worth the effort and 
expense because it has no known practical use. Of course, the 
problem is that we have no way of knowing what knowledge 
will be of use until we acquire that knowledge. In the middle 
of the 19th century, Queen Victoria is supposed to have asked 
physicist Michael Faraday what good his experiments with 
electricity and magnetism were. He answered, “Madam, what 
good is a baby?” Of course, Faraday’s experiments were the 
beginning of the electronic age. Many of the practical uses 
of scientific knowledge that fill our world ― transistors, 
vaccines, plastics ― began as basic research. Basic scientific 
research provides the raw materials that technology and 
engineering use to solve problems. 
Basic scientific research has yet one more important use 
that is so valuable it seems an insult to refer to it as merely 
functional. Science is the study of nature, and as we learn 
more about how nature works, we learn more about what our 
existence in this universe means for us. The seemingly 
impractical knowledge we gain from space probes to other 
worlds tells us about our planet and our own role in the 
scheme of nature. Science tells us where we are and what we 
are, and that knowledge is beyond value. 


The midday sun was glorious. The high school grounds 
were filled with well-dressed people, posing in fancy dresses 
and suits for cheerful photographers. Congratulations, hugs, 
and laughter were contagious. Hannah looked at all the 
familiar faces that had been part of her life for the last 
few years. Soon her mother would be joining them. She 
recalled the first day of school when she had stood in that 
same place, in the middle of many anxious freshmen, some 
of whom had become her closest friends.
That day was unusually foggy as if something mysterious 
were ahead. Hannah was nervous and trembling. The principal 
was energetically addressing them, talking of the challenges 
and thrills of high school life, but she could not concentrate. 
Later, a tall, strict-looking man introduced himself as her
homeroom teacher. The classroom was old, but neat and 
inviting. Hannah was seated in the fifth row, hallway side, 
even though she had wanted a window seat. High school life 
soon proved as challenging as the principal had predicted.
Hannah struggled with the many class hours, the endless 
assignments, and the exams. However, there were exciting 
events like sports days and school festivals. How could she
ever forget her second year! She had sung and danced with 
her friends in the festival, part of a sensational performance. 
After that, she had become more confident and active. Her 
thoughts wandering, Hannah vaguely heard her mother’s 
voice. “Here you are!” Her mother hurried over, and gave 
 her a bundle of lilies and roses and a big hug. 
“Hannah, you look so serious. What are you thinking 
about?” “Oh, Mom, just, you know.” Her mother smiled. 
“You’ll miss this place, won’t you?” Hannah nodded. 
“Quick,” her mother said, “stand over there . . . and smile, 
Hannah. You have such a pretty smile.” She hurried out 
her cell phone, zoomed in on her daughter, and realized 
suddenly that she was looking at a young lady. “You’re all 
grown-up,” she whispered. Hannah took more photos with 
her teachers in the school garden. She wished all the 
memories would remain in her mind forever.