Dear Ms. Diane Edwards, I am a teacher working at East End High School. I have read from your notice that the East End Seaport Museum is now offering a special program, the 2017 Bug Lighthouse Experience. The program would be a great opportunity for our students to have fun and experience something new. I estimate that 50 students and teachers from our school would like to participate in it. Would you please let me know if it is possible to make a group reservation for the program for Saturday, November 18? We don’t want to miss this great opportunity. I look forward to hearing from you soon. Best regards, Joseph Loach


The start of the boat tour was far from what I had expected. None of the wildlife I saw was exotic. I could only see dull gray rocks. It was also so hot and humid that I could not enjoy the tour fully. However, as the boat slid into the Bay Park Canal, all of a sudden my mother shouted, “Look at the mangroves!” A whole new world came into sight. The mangrove forest alongside the canal thrilled me as we entered its cool shade. I was fascinated by the beautiful leaves and flowers of the mangroves. But best of all, I was charmed by the native birds, monkeys, and lizards moving among the branches. “What a wonderful adventure!” I exclaimed.

At the 2015 Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit, Ginni Rometty offered this advice: “When did you ever learn the most in your life? What experience? I guarantee you’ll tell me it was a time you felt at risk.” To become a better leader, you have to step out of your comfort zone. You have to challenge the conventional ways of doing things and search for opportunities to innovate. Exercising leadership not only requires you to challenge the organizational status quo but also requires you to challenge your internal status quo. You have to challenge yourself. You have to venture beyond the boundaries of your current experience and explore new territory. Those are the places where there are opportunities to improve, innovate, experiment, and grow. Growth is always at the edges, just outside the boundaries of where you are right now

One exercise in teamwork I do at a company retreat is to put the group in a circle. At one particular retreat, there were eight people in the circle, and I slowly handed tennis balls to one person to start throwing around the circle. If N equals the number of people in the circle, then the maximum number of balls you can have in motion is N minus 1. Why? Because it’s almost impossible to throw and catch at the same time. The purpose of the exercise is to demonstrate the importance of an individual’s action. People are much more concerned about catching the ball than throwing it. What this demonstrates is that it’s equally important to the success of the exercise that the person you’re throwing to catches the ball as that you are able to catch the ball. If you’re less concerned about how you deliver information than with how you receive it, you’ll ultimately fail at delegation. You have to be equally skilled at both.

Sensory-specific satiety is defined as a decrease in appetite, or the subjective liking for the food that is consumed, with little change in the hedonics of uneaten food. As a result of sensory-specific satiety, when people consume a variety of foods, they tend to overeat. A greater variety of food leads people to eat more than they would otherwise. So, being full and feeling sated are separate matters. The recovery of appetite or the motivation to eat is apparent to anyone who has consumed a large meal and is quite full, and does not require additional energy or nutrients to meet their daily needs, but decides to consume additional calories after seeing the dessert cart. Small changes in the sensory properties of foods are sufficient to increase food intake. For example, subjects who were presented with different shapes of pasta showed increased hedonic ratings and increased energy consumption relative to subjects eating only a single shape of pasta.

Individual authors and photographers have rights to their intellectual property during their lifetimes, and their heirs have rights for 70 years after the creator’s death, so any publication less than 125 years old has to be checked for its copyright status. The duration of copyright protection has increased steadily over the years; the life-plus-70-years standard was set by the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998, which increased the 50-year limit established by the 1976 Copyright Act. Supporters of such legislation like to defend these increases with tales of starving writers and their impoverished descendants, but in reality the beneficiaries are more likely to be transnational publishing companies. And note that copyright laws serve a dual purpose. In addition to protecting the rights of authors so as to encourage the publication of new creative works, copyright is also supposed to place reasonable time limits on those rights so that outdated works may be incorporated into new creative efforts. Therefore, the extended copyright protection frustrates new creative endeavors such as including poetry and song lyrics on Internet sites.

The above graph shows the sales of four types of ethical produce in the UK in 2010 and 2015. In 2015, the sales of each of the four types of ethical produce showed an increase from the sales of its corresponding type in 2010. Among the four types of ethical produce, the sales of Organic ranked the highest in 2010 but ranked the second highest in 2015. Among the four types of ethical produce, Rainforest Alliance recorded the second highest sales in 2010 and recorded the highest sales in 2015. The sales of Fairtrade in 2015 were twice as high as those in 2010. In both 2010 and 2015, the sales of Vegetarian meat alternatives were the lowest among the four types of ethical produce.

The late photographer Jim Marshall is regarded as one of the most celebrated photographers of the 20th century. He holds the distinction of being the first and only photographer to be presented with the Grammy Trustees Award. He started as a professional photographer in 1959. He was given unrivaled access to rock’s biggest artists, including the Rolling Stones, Bob Dylan, and Ray Charles. He was the only photographer granted backstage access for the Beatles’ final full concert and also shot the Rolling Stones on their historic 1972 tour. He formed special bonds with the artists he worked with and those relationships helped him capture some of his most vivid and iconic imagery. Over a 50-year career, the photographs he took appeared on more than 500 album covers. He was passionate about his work up until the end. “I have no kids,” he used to say. “My photographs are my children.”

2018 CVL Volleyball Camp The College Volleyball League (CVL) is hosting a camp for high school students from January 23 to 27. Training Program After a brief skills test, participants will be trained based on their levels. ∙Basic Level: serving, tossing, and spiking ∙Advanced Level: individual plays and team strategies Daily Schedule ∙9 a.m.－11 a.m.: one-on-one skills training ∙1 p.m.－4 p.m.: practice game sessions Note ∙Participation fee is $100. ∙Participants will receive a volleyball and a camp T-shirt. ∙College volleyball players will visit to offer advice to participants on the final day of the camp. For more information, visit our website at www.CVL.org

All donations this year go toward purchasing new books for the children’s library! ∙Date: Saturday, December 2, 2017 ∙Place: Peterson National Park ∙Registration & Safety Instruction: 9:00 a.m.－9:30 a.m. ∙Start Time: 10:00 a.m. How to Participate ∙Each participant should set a goal for donation by choosing only one of the following courses: － Course A: 2 miles ($20) － Course B: 3 miles ($30) － Course C: 5 miles ($50 or more) ∙Participants should make their donations before the start. What to Bring ∙Participants should bring comfortable shoes and sunscreen. ∙Lunch is not provided, so please bring your own refreshments. Participants who complete their hike will receive a medal. For more information, please call 234-567-1234.

Psychologists who study giving behavior have noticed that some people give substantial amounts to one or two charities, while others give small amounts to many charities. Those who donate to one or two charities seek evidence about what the charity is doing and what it is really having a positive impact. If the evidence indicates that the charity is really helping others, they make a substantial donation. Those who give small amounts to many charities are not so interested in whether what they are doing helps others ─ psychologists call them warm glow givers. Knowing that they are giving makes them feel good, regardless of the impact of their donation. In many cases the donation is so small ─ $10 or less ─ that if they stopped to think, they would realize that the cost of processing the donation is likely to exceed any benefit it brings to the charity.

Some prominent journalists say that archaeologists should work with treasure hunters because treasure hunters have accumulated valuable historical artifacts that can reveal much about the past. But archaeologists are not asked to cooperate with tomb robbers, who also have valuable historical artifacts. The quest for profit and the search for knowledge cannot coexist in archaeology because of the time factor. Rather incredibly, one archaeologist employed by a treasure hunting firm said that as long as archaeologists are given six months to study shipwrecked artifacts before they are sold, no historical knowledge is found! On the contrary, archaeologists and assistants from the INA (Institute of Nautical Archaeology) needed more than a decade of year-round conservation before they could even catalog all the finds from an eleventh-century AD wreck they had excavated. Then, to interpret those finds, they had to learn Russian, Bulgarian, and Romanian, without which they would never have learned the true nature of the site. Could a “commercial archaeologist” have  waited more than a decade or so before selling the finds?

Scott Adams, the creator of Dilbert, one of the most successful comic strips of all time, says that two personal letters dramatically changed his life. One night he was watching a PBS-TV program about cartooning, when he decided to write to the host of the show, Jack Cassady, to ask for his advice about becoming a cartoonist. Much to his surprise, he heard back from Cassady within a few weeks in the form of a handwritten letter. The letter advised Adams not to be discouraged if he received early rejections. Adams got inspired and submitted some cartoons, but he was quickly rejected. Not following Cassady’s advice, he became discouraged, put his materials away, and decided to forget cartooning as a career. About fifteen months later, he was surprised to receive yet another letter from Cassady, especially since he hadn’t thanked him for his original advice. He acted again on Cassady’s encouragement, but this time he stuck with it and obviously hit it big.

Apocalypse Now, a film produced and directed by Francis Ford Coppola, gained widespread popularity, and for good reason. The film is an adaptation of Joseph Conrad’s novel Heart of Darkness, which is set in the African Congo at the end of the 19th century. Unlike the original novel, Apocalypse Now is set in Vietnam and Cambodia during the Vietnam War. The setting, time period, dialogue and other incidental details are changed but the fundamental narrative and themes of Apocalypse Now are the same as those of Heart of Darkness. Both describe a physical journey, reflecting the central character’s mental and spiritual journey, down a river to confront the deranged Kurtz character, who represents the worst aspects of civilisation. By giving Apocalypse Now a setting that was contemporary at the time of its release, audiences were able to experience and identify with its themes more easily than they would have if the film had been a literal adaptation of the novel.

How many of the lunches that you ate over the last week can you recall? Do you remember what you ate today? I hope so. Yesterday? I bet it takes a moment’s effort. And what about the day before yesterday? What about a week ago? It’s not so much that your memory of last week’s lunch has disappeared; if provided with the right cue, like where you ate it, or whom you ate it with, you would likely recall what had been on your plate. Rather, it’s difficult to remember last week’s lunch because your brain has filed it away with all the other lunches you’ve ever eaten as just another lunch. When we try to recall something from a category that includes as many instances as “lunch” or “wine,” many memories compete for our attention. The memory of last Wednesday’s lunch isn’t necessarily gone; it’s that you lack the right hook to pull it out of a sea of lunchtime memories. But a wine that talks: That’s unique. It’s a memory without rivals.

In the less developed world, the percentage of the population involved in agriculture is declining, but at the same time, those remaining in agriculture are not benefiting from technological advances. The typical scenario in the less developed world is one in which a very few commercial agriculturalists are technologically advanced while the vast majority are incapable of competing. Indeed, this vast majority have lost control over their own production because of larger global causes. As an example, in Kenya, farmers are actively encouraged to grow export crops such as tea and coffee at the expense of basic food production. The result is that a staple crop, such as maize, is not being produced in a sufficient amount. The essential argument here is that the capitalist mode of production is affecting peasant production in the less developed world in such a way as to limit the production of staple foods, thus causing a food problem.


Over the past 60 years, as mechanical processes have replicated behaviors and talents we thought were unique to humans, we’ve had to change our minds about what sets us apart. As we invent more species of AI, we will be forced to surrender more of what is supposedly unique about humans. Each step of surrender ─ we are not the only mind that can play chess, fly a plane, make music, or invent a mathematical law ─ will be painful and sad. We’ll spend the next three decades ─ indeed, perhaps the next century ─ in a permanent identity crisis, continually asking ourselves what humans are good for. If we aren’t unique toolmakers, or artists, or moral ethicists, then what, if anything, makes us special? In the grandest irony of all, the greatest benefit of an everyday, utilitarian AI will not be increased productivity or an economics of abundance or a new way of doing science ─ although all those will happen. The greatest benefit of the arrival of artificial intelligence is that AIs will help define humanity.

In the context of SNS, media literacy has been argued to be especially important “in order to make the users aware of their rights when using SNS tools, and also help them acquire or reinforce human rights values and develop the behaviour necessary to respect other people’s rights and freedoms”. With regard to peer-to-peer risks such as bullying, this last element is of particular importance. This relates to a basic principle that children are taught in the offline world as well: ‘do not do to others what you would not want others to do to you’. Children’s SNS activities should be encouraged when we help them accumulate knowledge. This should also be a golden rule with regard to SNS, but for children and young people it is much more difficult to estimate the consequences and potential serious impact of their actions in this environment. Hence, raising awareness of children from a very early age about the particular characteristics of SNS and the potential long-term impact of a seemingly trivial act is crucial.

Most consumer magazines depend on subscriptions and advertising. Subscriptions account for almost 90 percent of total magazine circulation. Single-copy, or newsstand, sales account for the rest. However, single-copy sales are important: they bring in more revenue per magazine, because subscription prices are typically at least 50 percent less than the price of buying single issues. Further, potential readers explore a new magazine by buying a single issue; all those insert cards with subscription offers are included in magazines to encourage you to subscribe. Some magazines are distributed only by subscription. Professional or trade magazines are specialized magazines and are often published by professional associations. They usually feature highly targeted advertising. For example, the Columbia Journalism Review is marketed toward professional journalists and its few advertisements are news organizations, book publishers, and others. A few magazines, like Consumer Reports, work toward objectivity and therefore contain no advertising.

To modern man disease is a biological phenomenon that concerns him only as an individual and has no moral implications. When he contracts influenza, he never attributes this event to his behavior toward the tax collector or his mother-in-law. Among primitives, because of their supernaturalistic theories, the prevailing moral point of view gives a deeper meaning to disease. The gods who send disease are usually angered by the moral offences of the individual. Sometimes they may not strike the guilty person himself, but rather one of his relatives or tribesmen, to whom responsibility is extended. Disease, action that might produce disease, and recovery from disease are, therefore, of vital concern to the whole primitive community. Disease, as a sanction against social misbehavior, becomes one of the most important pillars of order in such societies. It takes over, in many cases, the role played by policemen, judges, and priests in modern society.

Both humans and rats have evolved taste preferences for sweet foods, which provide rich sources of calories. A study of food preferences among the Hadza hunter-gatherers of Tanzania found that honey was the most highly preferred food item, an item that has the highest caloric value. Human newborn infants also show a strong preference for sweet liquids. Both humans and rats dislike bitter and sour foods, which tend to contain toxins. They also adaptively adjust their eating behavior in response to deficits in water, calories, and salt. Experiments show that rats display an immediate liking for salt the first time they experience a salt deficiency. They likewise increase their intake of sweets and water when their energy and fluids become depleted. These appear to be specific evolved mechanisms, designed to deal with the adaptive problem of food selection, and coordinate consumption patterns with physical needs.

An incident in Japan in the 1950s alerted the world to the potential problems of organic mercury in fish. Factories were discharging mercury into the waters of Minamata Bay, which also harbored a commercial fishing industry. Mercury was being bioaccumulated in the fish tissue and severe mercury poisoning occurred in many people who consumed the fish. The disabling neurological symptoms were subsequently called Minamata disease. Control over direct discharge of mercury from industrial operations is clearly needed for prevention. However, it is now recognized that traces of mercury can appear in lakes far removed from any such industrial discharge. It is postulated that such contamination may result from airborne transport from remote power plants or municipal incinerators. Strictly controlled emission standards for such sources are needed to minimize this problem. Fish advisories have been issued for many lakes in the United States; these recommend limits on the number of times per month particular species of fish should be consumed.

Time spent on on-line interaction with members of one’s own, preselected community leaves less time available for actual encounters with a wide variety of people. If physicists, for example, were to concentrate on exchanging email and electronic preprints with other physicists around the world working in the same specialized subject area, they would likely devote less time, and be less receptive to new ways of looking at the world. Facilitating the voluntary construction of highly homogeneous social networks of scientific communication therefore allows individuals to filter the potentially overwhelming flow of information. But the result may be the tendency to overfilter it, thus eliminating the diversity of the knowledge circulating and diminishing the frequency of radically new ideas. In this regard, even a journey through the stacks of a real library can be more fruitful than a trip through today’s distributed virtual archives, because it seems difficult to use the available “search engines” to emulate efficiently the mixture of predictable and surprising discoveries that typically result from a physical shelf-search of an extensive library collection.

In one sense, every character you create will be yourself. You’ve never murdered, but your murderer’s rage will be drawn from memories of your own extreme anger. Your love scenes will contain hints of your own past kisses and sweet moments. That scene in which your octogenarian feels humiliated will draw on your experience of humiliation in the eighth grade, even though the circumstances are totally different and you’re not even consciously thinking about your middle-school years. Our characters’ emotions, after all, draw on our own emotions. Sometimes, however, you will want to use your life more directly in your fiction, dramatizing actual incidents. Charles Dickens used his desperate experience as a child laborer in Victorian England to write David Copperfield. Should you create a protagonist based directly on yourself? The problem with this ─ and it is a very large problem ─ is that almost no one can view himself  objectively  on the page. As the writer, you’re too close to your own complicated makeup. It can thus be easier and more effective to use a situation or incident from your life but make it happen to a character who is not you. In fact, that’s what authors largely have done. You can still, of course, incorporate aspects of yourself: your love of Beethoven, your quick temper, your soccer injuries. But by applying your own experience to a different protagonist, you can take advantage of your insider knowledge of the situation, and yet gain an objectivity and control that the original intense situation, by definition, did not have.



It was the first day of the new semester. Steve and Dave were excited that they would be back at school again. They rode their bicycles to school together that morning, as they usually did. Dave had math on the first floor, and Steve was on the second with history. On his way to the classroom, Steve’s teacher came up to him to ask if he wanted to run for student president. Steve thought for a moment and answered, “Sure, it’ll be a great experience.” After class, Steve spotted Dave in the hallway and ran to him excitedly, “I’ve got good news! I’m going for student president and I think mine will be the only nomination.” Dave cleared his throat and replied with surprise, “Actually, I’ve just registered my name, too!” He continued sharply, “Well, best of luck! But don’t think you’ll win the election, Steve.” Dave walked quickly away and from that moment on, there was an uncomfortable air of tension between the two friends. Steve tried to be friendly toward Dave, but he just didn’t seem to care. When the election day came, Steve found that his bicycle had a flat tire, so he started to run to school. Just as he reached the end of the street, Dave’s dad, who was driving Dave to school, pulled over to give him a ride. The dead silence in the car made the drive painful. Noticing the bad atmosphere, Dave’s dad said, “You know, only one of you can win. You have known each other since birth. Don’t let this election ruin your friendship. Try to be happy for each other!” His words hit Dave hard. Looking at Steve, Dave felt the need to apologize to him later that day. Steve won the election. Upon hearing the result, Dave went over to Steve and congratulated him, shaking his hand. Steve could still see the disappointment burning in his eyes. It wasn’t until later that evening, on the way home, that Dave said apologetically, “I’m so sorry, Steve! This election hasn’t damaged our friendship, has it?” “Of course not, Dave. We’re friends as always!” Steve responded with a smile. As Steve arrived home, his dad was proudly waiting for him and said, “Congratulations on the win! How did Dave take it?” Steve replied, “We’re fine now, best friends for life!” His dad laughed, “Sounds like you won two battles today!”
