Dear Ms. Robinson,
The Warblers Choir is happy to announce that we are                       
invited to compete in the International Young Choir 
Competition. The competition takes place in London on 
May 20. Though we wish to participate in the event, we 
do not have the necessary funds to travel to London. So 
we are kindly asking you to support us by coming to our 
fundraising concert. It will be held on March 26. In this 
concert, we shall be able to show you how big our 
passion for music is. Thank you in advance for your kind 
support and help.

2.The principal stepped on stage. “Now, I present this year’s 
top academic award to the student who has achieved the 
highest placing.” He smiled at the row of seats where twelve 
finalists had gathered. Zoe wiped a sweaty hand on her 
handkerchief and glanced at the other finalists. They all looked 
as pale and uneasy as herself. Zoe and one of the other 
finalists had won first placing in four subjects so it came 
down to how teachers ranked their hard work and confidence. 
“The Trophy for General Excellence is awarded to Miss Zoe 
Perry,” the principal declared. “Could Zoe step this way, 
please?” Zoe felt as if she were in heaven. She walked into 
the thunder of applause with a big smile.

3. When I was in the army, my instructors would show up in 
my barracks room, and the first thing they would inspect 
was our bed. It was a simple task, but every morning we 
were required to make our bed to perfection. It seemed a 
little ridiculous at the time, but the wisdom of this simple 
act has been proven to me many times over. If you make 
your bed every morning, you will have accomplished the 
first task of the day. It will give you a small sense of pride 
and it will encourage you to do another task and another. By 
the end of the day, that one task completed will have turned 
into many tasks completed. If you can’t do little things right, 
you will never do the big things right.


A job search is not a passive task. When you are 
searching, you are not browsing, nor are you “just looking”. 
Browsing is not an effective way to reach a goal you claim 
to want to reach. If you are acting with purpose, if you are 
serious about anything you chose to do, then you need to be 
direct, focused and whenever possible, clever. Everyone else 
searching for a job has the same goal, competing for the 
same jobs. You must do more than the rest of the herd. 
Regardless of how long it may take you to find and get the 
job you want, being proactive will logically get you results 
faster than if you rely only on browsing online job boards 
and emailing an occasional resume. Leave those activities to 
the rest of the sheep.

Many people view sleep as merely a “down time” when 
their brain shuts off and their body rests. In a rush to meet 
work, school, family, or household responsibilities, people cut 
back on their sleep, thinking it won’t be a problem, because 
all of these other activities seem much more important. But 
research reveals that a number of vital tasks carried out 
during sleep help to maintain good health and enable people 
to function at their best. While you sleep, your brain is hard 
at work forming the pathways necessary for learning and 
creating memories and new insights. Without enough sleep, 
you can’t focus and pay attention or respond quickly. A lack 
of sleep may even cause mood problems. In addition, growing 
evidence shows that a continuous lack of sleep increases the 
risk for developing serious diseases.

The whole of human society operates on knowing the 
future weather. For example, farmers in India know when 
the monsoon rains will come next year and so they know 
when to plant the crops. Farmers in Indonesia know there 
are two monsoon rains each year, so next year they can 
have two harvests. This is based on their knowledge of the 
past, as the monsoons have always come at about the same 
time each year in living memory. But the need to predict 
goes deeper than this; it influences every part of our lives. 
Our houses, roads, railways, airports, offices, and so on are 
all designed for the local climate. For example, in England 
all the houses have central heating, as the outside 
temperature is usually below 20°C, but no air­conditioning, 
as temperatures rarely go beyond 26°C, while in Australia 
the opposite is true: most houses have air­conditioning but 
rarely central heating.

Our ability to accurately recognize and label emotions is 
often referred to as emotional granularity. In the words of 
Harvard psychologist Susan David, “Learning to label 
emotions with a more nuanced vocabulary can be absolutely 
transformative.” David explains that if we don’t have a rich 
emotional vocabulary, it is difficult to communicate our 
needs and to get the support that we need from others. But 
those who are able to distinguish between a range of various 
emotions “do much, much better at managing the ups and 
downs of ordinary existence than those who see everything 
in black and white.” In fact, research shows that the process 
of labeling emotional experience is related to greater 
emotion regulation and psychosocial well­being.

Antonie van Leeuwenhoek was a scientist well known for 
his cell research. He was born in Delft, the Netherlands, on 
October 24, 1632. At the age of 16, he began to learn job 
skills in Amsterdam. At the age of 22, Leeuwenhoek returned 
to Delft. It wasn’t easy for Leeuwenhoek to become a 
scientist. He knew only one language — Dutch — which was 
quite unusual for scientists of his time. But his curiosity was 
endless, and he worked hard. He had an important skill. He 
knew how to make things out of glass. This skill came in 
handy when he made lenses for his simple microscope. He 
saw tiny veins with blood flowing through them. He also saw 
living bacteria in pond water. He paid close attention to the 
things he saw and wrote down his observations. Since he 
couldn’t draw well, he hired an artist to draw pictures of 
what he described.


We usually get along best with people who we think are 
like us. In fact, we seek them out. It’s why places like Little 
Italy, Chinatown, and Koreatown exist. But I’m not just 
talking about race, skin color, or religion. I’m talking about 
people who share our values and look at the world the same 
way we do. As the saying goes, birds of a feather flock 
together. This is a very common human tendency that is 
rooted in how our species developed. Imagine you are 
walking out in a forest. You would be conditioned to avoid 
something unfamiliar or foreign because there is a high 
likelihood that it would be interested in killing you. 
Similarities make us relate better to other people because 
we think they’ll understand us on a deeper level than other 
people.

Rejection is an everyday part of our lives, yet most people 
can’t handle it well. For many, it’s so painful that they’d 
rather not ask for something at all than ask and  risk
rejection. Yet, as the old saying goes, if you don’t ask, the 
answer is always no. Avoiding rejection negatively affects 
many aspects of your life. All of that happens only because 
you’re not tough enough to handle it. For this reason, 
consider rejection therapy. Come up with a request or an 
activity that usually results in a rejection. Working in sales 
is one such example. Asking for discounts at the stores will 
also work. By deliberately getting yourself rejected
you’ll grow a thicker skin that will allow you to take on 
much more in life, thus making you more successful at 
dealing with unfavorable circumstances.

Generalization without specific examples that humanize 
writing is boring to the listener and to the reader. Who 
wants to read platitudes all day? Who wants to hear the 
words great, greater, best, smartest, finest, humanitarian, on 
and on and on without specific examples? Instead of using 
these ‘nothing words,’ leave them out completely and just 
describe the particulars. There is nothing worse than 
reading a scene in a novel in which a main character is 
described up front as heroic or brave or tragic or funny, 
while thereafter, the writer quickly moves on to something 
else. That’s no good, no good at all. You have to use less 
one word descriptions and more detailed, engaging 
descriptions if you want to make something real.

Face­to­face interaction is a uniquely powerful ― and 
sometimes the only ― way to share many kinds of 
knowledge, from the simplest to the most complex. It is one 
of the best ways to stimulate new thinking and ideas, too. 
Most of us would have had difficulty learning how to tie a 
shoelace only from pictures, or how to do arithmetic from a 
book. Psychologist Mihàly Csikszentmihàlyi found, while 
studying high achievers, that a large number of Nobel Prize 
winners were the students of previous winners: they had 
access to the same literature as everyone else, but 
 personal contact made a crucial difference to their 
creativity. Within organisations this makes conversation both 
a crucial factor for high­level professional skills and the 
most important way of sharing everyday information. 

Most times a foreign language is spoken in film, subtitles 
are used to translate the dialogue for the viewer. However, 
there are occasions when foreign dialogue is left unsubtitled 
(and thus incomprehensible to most of the target audience). 
This is often done if the movie is seen mainly from the 
viewpoint of a particular character who does not speak the 
language. Such absence of subtitles allows the audience to 
feel a similar sense of incomprehension and alienation that 
the character feels. An example of this is seen in Not 
Without My Daughter. The Persian language dialogue spoken 
by the Iranian characters is not subtitled because the main 
character Betty Mahmoody does not speak Persian and the 
audience is  seeing the film from her viewpoint.

One dynamic that can change dramatically in sport is the 
concept of the home­field advantage, in which perceived 
demands and resources seem to play a role. Under normal 
circumstances, the home ground would appear to provide 
greater perceived resources (fans, home field, and so on). 
However, researchers Roy Baumeister and Andrew 
Steinhilber were among the first to point out that these 
competitive factors can change; for example, the success 
percentage for home teams in the final games of a playoff 
or World Series seems to drop. Fans can become part of the 
perceived demands rather than resources under those 
circumstances. This change in perception can also explain 
why a team that’s struggling at the start of the year 
will to reduce perceived often welcome a road trip demands and pressures.

Who hasn’t used a cup of coffee to help themselves stay 
awake while studying? Mild stimulants commonly found in 
tea, coffee, or sodas possibly make you more attentive and, 
thus, better able to remember. However, you should know 
that stimulants are as likely to have negative effects on 
memory as they are to be beneficial.  Even if they could 
improve performance at some level, the ideal doses are 
currently unknown. If you are wide awake and well­rested, 
mild stimulation from caffeine can do little to further 
improve your memory performance. Indeed, if you have too much of a 
stimulant, you will become nervous, find it difficult to sleep, 
and your memory performance will suffer.

Toward the end of the 19th century, a new architectural 
attitude emerged. Industrial architecture, the argument 
went, was ugly and inhuman; past styles had more to do 
with pretension than what people needed in their homes.
Instead of these approaches, why not look at the way 
ordinary country builders worked in the past? They 
developed their craft skills over generations, demonstrating 
mastery of both tools and materials.
 Those materials were local, and used with simplicity —
houses built this way had plain wooden floors and 
whitewashed walls inside. But they supplied people’s needs perfectly and, at their 
best, had a beauty that came from the craftsman’s skill 
and the rootedness of the house in its locality.

Robert Schumann once said, “The laws of morals are 
those of art.” What the great man is saying here is that 
there is good music and bad music.
The greatest music, even if it’s tragic in nature, takes 
us to a world higher than ours; somehow the beauty 
uplifts us. Bad music, on the other hand, degrades us.
It’s the same with performances: a bad performance 
isn’t necessarily the result of incompetence. Some of 
the worst performances occur when the performers, no 
matter how accomplished, are thinking more of 
themselves than of the music they’re playing.
These doubtful characters aren’t really listening to what 
the composer is saying — they’re just showing off, 
hoping that they’ll have a great ‘success’ with the 
public. The performer’s basic task is to try to 
understand the meaning of the music, and then to 
communicate it honestly to others.

When an ecosystem is biodiverse, wildlife have more 
opportunities to obtain food and shelter. Different species 
react and respond to changes in their environment 
differently.For example, imagine a forest with only 
one type of plant in it, which is the only source of food and 
habitat for the entire forest food web. Now, there is 
a sudden dry season and this plant dies. Plant­eating 
animals completely lose their food source and die out, and 
so do the animals that prey upon them. But, when there is biodiversity, the effects of a sudden 
change are not so dramatic.Different 
species of plants respond to the drought differently, and 
many can survive a dry season. Many animals have a 
variety of food sources and don’t just rely on one plant; now 
our forest ecosystem is no longer at the death! 

We are connected to the night sky in many ways. It 
has always inspired people to wonder and to imagine. Since the dawn of civilization, our ancestors created 
myths and told legendary stories about the night sky.Elements of those narratives became embedded in the social 
and cultural identities of many generations. On a 
practical level, the night sky helped past generations to keep 
track of time and create calendars — essential to developing 
societies as aids to farming and seasonal gathering.  
For many centuries, it also provided a useful navigation tool, 
vital for commerce and for exploring new worlds. 
Even in modern times, many people in remote areas of the 
planet observe the night sky for such practical purposes.

The longest journey we will make is the eighteen 
inches between our head and heart. If we take this 
journey, it can shorten our misery in the world. 
Impatience, judgment, frustration, and anger reside in our 
heads. When we live in that place too long, it makes us 
unhappy. But when we take the journey from our 
heads to our hearts, something shifts  inside. What if 
we were able to love everything that gets in our way? 
What if we tried loving the shopper who unknowingly 
steps in front of us in line, the driver who cuts us off in 
traffic, the swimmer who splashes us with water during a 
belly dive, or the reader who pens a bad online review 
of our writing?
Every person who makes us miserable is like us —
a human being, most likely doing the best they can, 
deeply loved by their parents, a child, or a friend. And 
how many times have we unknowingly stepped in front of 
someone in line? Cut someone off in traffic? Splashed 
someone in a pool? Or made a negative statement about 
something we’ve read? It helps to remember that a piece 
of us resides in every person we meet.


One day a young man was walking along a road on his 
journey from one village to another. As he walked he 
noticed a monk working in the fields. The young man 
turned to the monk and said, “Excuse me. Do you mind  if 
I ask you a question?” “Not at all,” replied the monk.
“I am traveling from the village in the mountains to the 
village in the valley and I was wondering if you knew 
what it is like in the village in the valley.” “Tell me,” 
said the monk, “what was your experience of the village 
in the mountains?” “Terrible,” replied the young man. “I 
am glad to be away from there. I found the people most 
unwelcoming. So tell me, what can I expect in the 
village in the valley?” “I am sorry to tell you,” said the 
monk, “but I think your experience will be much the 
same there.” The young man lowered his head helplessly 
and walked on.A while later a middle­aged man journeyed down the 
same road and came upon the monk. “I am going to the 
village in the valley,” said the man. “Do you know what 
it is like?” “I do,” replied the monk, “but first tell  me
about the village where you came from.” “I’ve come from 
the village in the mountains,” said the man. “It was a 
wonderful experience. I felt as though I was a member 
of the family in the village.”“Why did you feel like that?” asked the monk. “The 
elders gave me much advice, and people were kind and 
generous. I am sad to have left there. And what is the 
village in the valley like?” he asked again. “ I think 
you will find it much the same,” replied the monk. “I’m 
glad to hear that,” the middle­aged man said smiling and 
journeyed on.

Dear Mrs. Coling,
My name is Susan Harris and I am writing on
behalf of the students at Lockwood High School.
Many students at the school have been working on
a project about the youth unemployment problem in
Lockwood. You are invited to attend a special
presentation that will be held at our school
auditorium on April 16th. At the presentation,
students will propose a variety of ideas for
developing employment opportunities for the youth
within the community. As one of the famous
figures in the community, we would be honored by
your attendance. We look forward to seeing you
there.


Finally, it was Shaun’s turn to give a speech. When he
opened his mouth, nothing but air escaped his throat. Then
he tried to speak again, not knowing what to say. He had
prepared to talk about time and he started with the word:
‘Time....’ But nothing followed. Shaun could not find the
words. Laughter started to pass through the auditorium from
front to back. Even the judges looked disappointed. He didn’t
know what to say. He looked into the crowd. The audience
at the contest were laughing out loud now, at him, at his
inability.

Recent studies show some interesting findings about habit
formation. In these studies, students who successfully
acquired one positive habit reported less stress; less
impulsive spending; better dietary habits; decreased caffeine
consumption; fewer hours spent watching TV; and even
fewer dirty dishes. Keep working on one habit long enough,
and not only does it become easier, but so do other things
as well. It’s why those with the right habits seem to do
better than others. They’re doing the most important thing
regularly and, as a result, everything else is easier.
