
Dear local business owners,
My name is Carol Williams, president of the student 
council at Yellowstone High School. We are hosting our 
annual quiz night on March 30 and plan to give prizes to the 
winning team. However, this event won’t be possible 
without the support of local businesses who provide valuable 
products and services. Would you be willing to donate a gift 
certificate that we can use as a prize? We would be grateful 
for any amount on the certificate. In exchange for your 
generosity, we would place an advertisement for your 
business on our answer sheets. Thank you for taking time to 
read this letter and consider our request. If you’d like to 
donate or need more information, please call or email me. I 
look forward to hearing from you soon.
Carol Williams

Dan and I were supposed to make a presentation that day. 
Right after the class started, my phone buzzed. It was a text 
from Dan saying, “I can’t make it on time. There’s been a car 
accident on the road!” I almost fainted. ‘What should I do?’ 
Dan didn’t show up before our turn, and soon I was standing in 
front of the whole class. I managed to finish my portion, and 
my mind went blank for a few seconds, wondering what to do. 
‘Hold yourself together!’ I quickly came to my senses and 
worked through Dan’s part of the presentation as best as I 
could. After a few moments, I finished the entire presentation 
on my own. Only then did the tension vanish. I could see our 
professor’s beaming face.

Clarity in an organization keeps everyone working in one 
accord and energizes key leadership components like trust and 
transparency. No matter who or what is being assessed in 
your organization, what they are being assessed on must be 
clear and the people must be aware of it. If individuals in your 
organization are assessed without knowing what they are being 
assessed on, it can cause mistrust and move your organization 
away from clarity. For your organization to be productive, 
cohesive, and successful, trust is essential. Failure to have 
trust in your organization will have a negative effect on the 
results of any assessment. It will also significantly hinder the 
growth of your organization. To conduct accurate assessments, 
trust is a must — which comes through clarity. In turn, 
assessments help you see clearer, which then empowers your 
organization to reach optimal success.

Research in the science of peak performance and motivation 
points to the fact that different tasks should ideally be matched 
to our energy level. For example, analytical tasks are best 
accomplished when our energy is high and we are free from 
distractions and able to focus. I generally wake up energized. 
Over the years, I have consistently stuck to the habit of “eating 
my problems for breakfast.” I’m someone who tends to 
overthink different scenarios and conversations that haven’t 
happened yet. When I procrastinate on talking with an unhappy 
client or dealing with an unpleasant email, I find I waste too 
much emotional energy during the day. It’s as if the task hangs
over my head, and I’ll spend more time worrying about it, 
talking about it, and avoiding it, than it would actually take to 
just take care of it. So for me, it’ll always be the first thing I 
get done. If you know you are not a morning person, be 
strategic about scheduling your difficult work later in the day.

In one study, when researchers suggested that a date was 
associated with a new beginning (such as “the first day of 
spring”), students viewed it as a more attractive time to 
kick-start goal pursuit than when researchers presented it as 
an unremarkable day (such as “the third Thursday in March”). 
Whether it was starting a new gym habit or spending less time 
on social media, when the date that researchers suggested was 
associated with a new beginning, more students wanted to begin 
changes right then. And more recent research by a different 
team found that similar benefits were achieved by showing goal 
seekers modified weekly calendars. When calendars depicted 
the current day (either Monday or Sunday) as the first day of 
the week, people reported feeling more motivated to make 
immediate progress on their goals.

Native Americans often sang and danced in preparation for 
launching an attack. The emotional and neurochemical 
excitement that resulted from this preparatory singing gave 
them stamina to carry out their attacks. What may have begun 
as an unconscious, uncontrolled act — rushing their victims with 
singing and beating drums in a frenzy — could have become a 
strategy as the victors saw firsthand the effect their actions had 
on those they were attacking. Although war dances risk warning 
an enemy of an upcoming attack, the arousal and synchronizing 
benefits for the attackers may compensate for the loss of 
surprise. Humans who sang, danced, and marched may have 
enjoyed a strong advantage on the battlefield as well as 
intimidated enemies who witnessed such a spectacle. 
Nineteenth-and twentieth-century Germans feared no one 
more than the Scots — the bagpipes and drums were disturbing 
in their sheer loudness and visual spectacle.

The recent “cycling as a lifestyle” craze has expressed itself 
in an increase in the number of active cyclists and in growth of 
cycling club membership in several European, American, 
Australian and Asian urban areas. It has also been accompanied 
by a symbolic reinterpretation of the bicycle. After the bicycle 
had been associated with poverty for many years, expensive 
recreational bicycles or recreationally-inspired commuting 
bicycles have suddenly become aspirational products in urban 
environments. In present times, cycling has become an activity 
which is also performed for its demonstrative value, its role in 
identity construction and its effectiveness in impressing others 
and signaling social status. To a certain extent, cycling has 
turned into a symbolic marker of the well-off. Obviously, 
value-laden consumption behavior is by no means limited to 
cycling. However, the link with identity construction and 
conspicuous consumption has become particularly manifest in 
the case of cycling.

The graph above shows the percentage of children who 
received second-dose measles vaccinations in six regions in 
2000 and in 2020. The percentage of vaccinated children in 
the Western Pacific was lower than that of Europe in 2000, 
but the vaccination percentage in 2020 of the Western Pacific 
exceeded that of Europe by 3 percentage points. Among all 
regions, South-East Asia achieved the second biggest 
increase in its percentage of vaccinated children over the two 
decades, and it ranked third in the percentage of vaccinated 
children among the six regions in 2020. In the Eastern 
Mediterranean, the percentage of vaccinated children more than 
doubled from 2000 to 2020, but did not exceed that of the 
Americas in either year.  The percentage of vaccinated 
children in the Americas was the highest among the six regions 
in 2000, but it increased the least of all regions over the two
decades.  In Africa, the percentage of children who received 
the vaccine in 2020 was more than seven times higher than in 
2000, but was still the lowest among the six regions in 2020.

Janaki Ammal, one of India’s most notable scientists, was born 
in 1897, and was expected to wed through an arranged marriage. 
Despite living at a time when literacy among women in India was
less than one percent, she decided to reject tradition and attend 
college. In 1924, she went to the U.S. and eventually received a 
doctorate in botany from the University of Michigan. Ammal 
contributed to the development of the sweetest sugarcane 
variety in the world. She moved to England where she 
co-authored the Chromosome Atlas of Cultivated Plants. 
Following a series of famines, she returned to India to help 
increase food production at the request of the Prime Minister. 
However, Ammal disagreed with the deforestation taking place 
in an effort to grow more food. She became an advocate for the 
preservation of native plants and successfully saved the Silent
Valley from the construction of a hydroelectric dam.

2022 Strawberry Festival
 Join us for a fun family festival. This year, we are back to 
hosting an in-person event in Berry Square!
Date: November 26, 2022 (11:00 a.m. — 5:00 p.m.)
Tickets: $20 per person 
 (Children 6 and under are FREE.)
 Special Events
11:00 a.m. : Baking Class for Kids
1:00 p.m. : Strawberry Pie-Eating Contest
3:00 p.m. : Strawberry Costume Contest
Note
The parking fee is $5 and includes tram service to the 
ticket booth. If you are interested in volunteering, complete an application 
form and email it to manager@strawberryfestival.org.

Pre-emption means that a strategy is designed to prevent a 
rival from starting some particular activity. In some case a 
pre-emptive move may simply be an announcement of some 
intent ① that might discourage rivals from doing the same. The 
idea of pre-emption implies that timing is sometimes very 
important — a decision or an action at one point in time might 
be much more rewarding than  doing it at a different time 
point. Pre-emption may involve up-weighting advertising for a 
period before and during when a new entrant launches into a 
market. The intent is to make it more difficult for the new 
entrant’s advertising to make an impression on potential 
buyers. Product proliferation is another potential pre-emption 
strategy. The general idea is to launch a large variety of 
product variants so that there is very little in the way of 
market demand that  is not accommodated. Arguably, if a 
market is already filled with product variants it is more difficult 
for competitors to find  untapped pockets of market demand.


Countershading is the process of optical flattening that 
provides camouflage to animals. When sunlight illuminates an 
object from above, the object will be brightest on top. The color 
of the object will gradually shade darker toward the  bottom. 
This shading gives the object depth and allows the viewer 
to distinguish its shape. Thus even if an animal is exactly, 
but uniformly, the same color as the substrate, it will be 
easily  visible when illuminated. Most animals, however, are 
darker above than they are below. When they are illuminated 
from above, the darker back is lightened and the lighter 
belly is shaded. The animal thus appears to be a  single
color and easily blends in with the substrate. This pattern 
of coloration, or countershading, destorys  the visual 
impression of shape in the organism. It allows the animal to 
blend in with its background.

No learning is possible without an error signal. Organisms 
only learn when events violate their expectations. In other 
words, surprise is one of the fundamental drivers of learning. 
Imagine hearing a series of identical notes, AAAAA. Each note 
draws out a response in the auditory areas of your brain — but 
as the notes repeat, those responses progressively decrease. 
This is called “adaptation,” a deceptively simple phenomenon 
that shows that your brain is learning to anticipate the next 
event. Suddenly, the note changes: AAAAA#. Your primary 
auditory cortex immediately shows a strong surprise reaction: 
not only does the adaptation fade away, but additional neurons 
begin to vigorously fire in response to the unexpected sound. 
And it is not just repetition that leads to adaptation: what 
matters is whether the notes are predictable. For instance, if 
you hear an alternating set of notes, such as ABABA, your 
brain gets used to this alternation, and the activity in your 
auditory areas again decreases. This time, however, it is an 
unexpected repetition, such as ABABB, that triggers a surprise 
response.

The connectedness of the global economic market makes 
it vulnerable to potential “infection.” A financial failure can
make its way from borrowers to banks to insurers, spreading 
like a flu. However, there are unexpected characteristics 
when it comes to such infection in the market. Infection can 
occur even without any contact. A bank might become 
insolvent even without having any of its investments fail. 
 Fear and uncertainty can be damaging to financial markets, just 
as cascading failures due to bad investments. If we all woke 
up tomorrow and believed that Bank X would be insolvent, 
then it would become insolvent. In fact, it would be enough 
for us to fear that others believed that Bank X was going to 
fail, or just to fear our collective fear! We might all even 
know that Bank X was well-managed with healthy 
investments, but if we expected others to pull their money 
out, then we would fear being the last to pull our money out. 
Financial distress can be self-fulfilling and is a particularly
troublesome aspect of financial markets.

Negative numbers are a lot more abstract than positive 
numbers — you can’t see negative 4 cookies and you certainly 
can’t eat them — but you can think about them, and you have to, 
in all aspects of daily life, from debts to contending with 
freezing temperatures and parking garages. Still, many of us 
haven’t quite made peace with negative numbers. People have 
invented all sorts of funny little mental strategies to sidestep the dreaded negative sign.
 On mutual fund statements, losses (negative numbers) are printed in red or 
stuck in parentheses with no negative sign to be found. The 
history books tell us that Julius Caesar was born in 100 B.C., not 
-100. The underground levels in a parking garage often have 
designations like B1 and B2. Temperatures are one of the few 
exceptions: folks do say, especially here in Ithaca, New York, 
that it’s -5 degrees outside, though even then, many prefer to 
say 5 below zero. There’s something about that negative sign 
that just looks so unpleasant.

Observational studies of humans cannot be properly 
controlled. Humans live different lifestyles and in different 
environments. Thus, they are insufficiently homogeneous to be 
suitable experimental subjects. These confounding factors
undermine our ability to draw sound causal conclusions from 
human epidemiological surveys. Confounding factors are variables 
(known or unknown) that make it difficult for epidemiologists to  isolate the effects of the specific variable being 
studied. For example, Taubes argued that since many people who drink also smoke, 
researchers have difficulty determining the link between 
alcohol consumption and cancer. Similarly, researchers in the 
famous Framingham study identified a significant correlation 
between coffee drinking and coronary heart disease. However, 
most of this correlation disappeared once researchers corrected
for the fact that many coffee drinkers also smoke. If the 
confounding factors are known, it is often possible to correct 
for them. However, if they are unknown, they will undermine 
the reliability of the causal conclusions we draw from 
epidemiological surveys.

Of all the human emotions, none is trickier or more elusive 
than envy. It is very difficult to actually discern the envy that 
motivates people’s actions.  The reason for this elusiveness is
simple: we almost never directly express the envy we are 
feeling.  Envy entails the admission to ourselves that we are 
inferior to another person in something we value. Not only is 
it painful to admit this inferiority, but it is even worse for 
others to see that we are feeling this.  Envy can cause illness 
because people with envy can cast the “evil eye” on someone 
they envy, even unwittingly, or the envious person can become 
ill from the emotion.  And so almost as soon as we experience 
the initial feelings of envy, we are motivated to disguise it to 
ourselves — it is not envy we feel but unfairness at the 
distribution of goods or attention, resentment at this unfairness, 
even anger.

The right to be forgotten is a right distinct from but 
related to a right to privacy. The right to privacy is, among 
other things, the right for information traditionally regarded 
as protected or personal not to be revealed.The right to be forgotten, in contrast, can be applied to 
information that has been in the public domain. The right 
to be forgotten broadly includes the right of an individual 
not to be forever defined by information from a specific 
point in time.  One motivation for such a right is to allow individuals to 
move on with their lives and not be defined by a specific 
event or period in their lives. For example, it has long been 
recognized in some countries, such as the UK and France, 
that even past criminal convictions should eventually be 
“spent” and not continue to affect a person’s life.Despite the reason for supporting the right to be forgotten,
the right to be forgotten can sometimes come into conflict 
with other rights. For example, formal exceptions are 
sometimes made for security or public health reasons.

To an economist who succeeds in figuring out a person’s 
preference structure — understanding whether the satisfaction 
gained from consuming one good is greater than that of 
another — explaining behavior in terms of changes in 
underlying likes and dislikes is usually highly problematic.
To argue, for instance, that the baby boom and then the 
baby bust resulted from an increase and then a decrease in 
the public’s inherent taste for children, rather than a change 
in relative prices against a background of stable preferences, 
places a social scientist in an unsound position.
In economics, such an argument about birth rates would be 
equivalent to saying that a rise and fall in mortality could 
be attributed to an increase in the inherent desire change 
for death. For an economist, changes in income and prices, 
rather than changes in tastes, affect birth rates. 
When income rises, for example, people want more children 
(or, as you will see later, more satisfaction derived from 
children), even if their inherent desire for children stays 
the same.

In the natural world, if an animal consumes a plant with 
enough antinutrients to make it feel unwell, it won’t eat that 
plant again. Intuitively, animals also know to stay away from 
these plants. Years of evolution and information being passed 
down created this innate intelligence. This “intuition,” 
though, is not just seen in animals. Have you ever 
wondered why most children hate vegetables?  Dr. Steven 
Gundry justifies this as part of our genetic programming, our 
inner intelligence. Since many vegetables are full of 
antinutrients, your body tries to keep you away from them 
while you are still fragile and in development. It does this by making your taste buds perceive these flavors 
as bad and even disgusting. As you grow and your body becomes stronger enough to tolerate these 
antinutrients, suddenly they no longer taste as bad as before.

The difference in the Moon’s gravitational pull on different 
parts of our planet effectively creates a “stretching force.”  
It makes our planet slightly stretched out along the line of sight 
to the Moon and slightly compressed along a line perpendicular 
to that. The tidal stretching caused by the Moon’s gravity 
affects our entire planet, including both land and water, inside 
and out.However, the rigidity of rock means that land rises and falls 
with the tides by a much smaller amount than water, which is 
why we notice only the ocean tides. The stretching also explains why there are 
generally two high tides (and two low tides) in the ocean each 
day. Because Earth is stretched much like a rubber band, 
the oceans bulge out both on the side facing toward the Moon 
and on the side facing away from the Moon. As Earth 
rotates, we are carried through both of these tidal bulges each
day, so we have high tide when we are in each of the two bulges
and low tide at the midpoints in between. 

A study investigated the economic cost of prejudice based 
on blind assumptions. Researchers gave a group of Danish 
teenagers the choice of working with one of two people. The 
teenager had never met either of them. One of the people had 
a name that suggested they were from a similar ethnic or 
religious background to the teenager. The other had a name 
that suggested they were from a different ethnic or religious 
background. The study showed that the teenagers were 
prepared to earn an average of 8% less if they could work 
with someone they thought came from the same ethnic or 
religious background. And this prejudice was evident among 
teenagers with ethnic majority names as well as those with 
ethnic minority names. The teenagers were blindly making 
assumptions about the race of their potential colleagues. 
They then applied prejudice to those assumptions, to the 
point where they actually allowed that prejudice to reduce 
their own potential income. The job required the two 
teenagers to work together for just 90 minutes.


A neuropsychologist, Michael Gazzaniga conducted a study 
that shows that our brains excel at creating coherent (but not 
necessarily true) stories that deceive us. In the study, split-brain 
patients were shown an image such that it was visible to only their 
left eye and asked to select a related card with their left hand. 
Left-eye vision and left-side body movement are controlled by 
the right hemisphere. In a split-brain patient, the connection 
between the right and left hemispheres has been broken, 
meaning no information can cross from one hemisphere to the 
other. Therefore, in this experiment, the right hemisphere was 
doing all of the work, and the left hemisphere was  unaware of 
what was happening.
Gazzaniga then asked participants why they chose the card 
that they did. Because language is processed and generated in 
the left hemisphere, the left hemisphere is required to 
respond. However, because of the experiment’s design, only 
the right hemisphere knew why the participant selected the 
card. As a result, Gazzaniga expected the participants to be 
 silent when asked to answer the question. But instead, 
every subject fabricated a response. The left hemisphere was 
being asked to provide a rationalization for a behavior done 
by the right hemisphere. The left hemisphere didn’t know the 
answer. But that didn’t keep it from fabricating an answer. That 
answer, however, had no basis in reality. Now if this study had
been limited to split-brain patients, it would be interesting but 
not very relevant to us. It turns out split-brain patients 
aren’t the only ones who fabricate reasons. We all do it. We all 
need a coherent story about ourselves, and when information in 
that story is missing, our brains simply fill in the details.

The basketball felt like it belonged in Chanel’s hands even 
though it was only a practice game. She decided not to pass 
the ball to her twin sister, Vasha. Instead,  she stopped, 
jumped, and shot the ball toward the basket, but it bounced 
off the backboard. Chanel could see that her teammates were 
disappointed. The other team got the ball and soon scored, 
ending the game. When the practice game ended, Chanel felt her eyes 
sting with tears. “It’s okay,” Vasha said in a comforting 
voice. Chanel appreciated her, but Vasha wasn’t making her 
feel any better. Vasha wanted to help her twin improve. 
She invited her twin to practice with  her. After school, 
they got their basketball and started practicing their 
basketball shots. At first, Chanel did not like practicing with Vasha because 
every time Vasha shot the ball, it went in. But whenever it 
was Chanel’s turn, she missed. She got frustrated at not 
making a shot. “Don’t give up!” Vasha shouted after each 
missed shot. After twelve misses in a row, her thirteenth 
shot went in and she screamed, “I finally did it!” Her twin 
said, “I knew you could! Now let’s keep practicing!”
The next day, Chanel played in the championship game 
against a rival school. It was an intense game and the score 
was tied when Chanel was passed the ball by Vasha, with ten 
seconds left in the game. She leaped into the air and shot 
the ball. It went straight into the basket! Chanel’s last shot 
had made her team the champions. Vasha and all her other 
teammates cheered for her.

